eda	Eda is required for growth of S. Typhi-murium with D-glucuronate as carbon source.	Eda is required.
yhjh	\N	yhjH are In E. coli members of ﬂagellar regulon.
dbh	\N	Dbh mice is with qseC mutant. Dbh mice are Consequently more susceptible.
laci	\N	lacI expression is induced.
rob	Rob induce mgtA transcription. basal Rob levels contribute to MgtA expression in late exponential phase. Rob affect transcriptional activity of other PhoP-regulated genes.	Mar/Sox Rob motif is in S. enterica mgtA promoter. Rob is 7 February 2008/Accepted 7 May 2008 member of Sox/Mar subfamily of AraC/XylS-type transcriptional regulators implicated in bacterial multidrug. Rob are also members.
pta	pta encodes phosphotransacetylase. Pta enzymes contribute to synthesis of acetyl-CoA in cell.	ackA pta region is in strain 14028s. pta genes are In E. coli required for synthesis of acetyl phosphate from acetyl coenzyme A from acetate respectively.
yhjb	\N	YhjB is in E. coli. YhjB is considered.
msga	\N	msgA is cotranscribed with envE.
pldb	\N	pldB genes are co-transcribed.
lacy	\N	decreased lacY expression is in his-lac fusion strain. N-terminal LacY is with primers.
lacz	lacZ gene can can transcribed only from P2 promoter.	lacZ transcriptional fusion contains only 165 bp 5 to start of translation. lacZ SP6/T7 expression vector pSPT18 ﬂiC pSPT18 ﬂiC pSPT18 trc ﬂiC SP6/T7 expression vector pSPT19 ﬂiC pSPT19 ﬂjB trc expression vector pTrc97A trcp ﬂiC pTrc97A trcp ﬂiC pICP2 A-to-C substitution is in initiation codon of ﬂiC gene trc expression vector pTrc99A ﬂiC. lacZ fusion is normally regulated by growth phase with maximal induction of expression occurring upon entry into stationary phase of growth. promoterless lacZ gene pMEG2 pMP190 is with 258-bp XhoI/BglII fragment from immediately upstream of dsbA translational start site cloned into multiple cloning site. lacZ is expressed in when intracellular environment of J774 macrophages. lacZ transcriptional fusion are represented.
prop	proP play role in betaine transport. proP gene plays role in betaine uptake. proP gene encoding minor proline permease in S. typhimurium. Salmonella typhimurium proP gene encodes transport system for osmoprotectant betaine. proP is required for osmoprotection. proP genes have have also identified in E. coli.	ProP system is in media of various. proP expression is rapidly and transiently stimulated. proline-prototrophic putP proP mutants are In of osmotic stress normally resistant to proline analogs.
kate	S-dependent gene katE encodes catalase. katE encode trehalose-6-phosphate synthase.	katE gene transcription is in low Mg2 conditions. katE expression is more sensitive to Crl in ATCCrpoSLT2.
katg	\N	KatG are often referred to as HPI respectively.
rhau	\N	RhaU is rhamnose mutarotase.
norr	\N	NorR are For example dedicated sensors of NO.
rhas	RhaS regulate rhiTN operon involved in uptake of rhamnogalacturonides. RhaS activator controls Erwinia chrysanthemi 3937 genes involved in rhamnogalacturonan catabolism. RhaS activates rhaBAD genes.	transcriptional regulator RhaS belongs to AraC protein family. additional RhaS targets is in analyzed genomes.
rhar	RhaR binding to inverted repeat of two 17 bp half sites separated by 17 bp spacer. RhaR activate transcription from L-rhamnose-responsive rhaSR promoter. RhaR repressor binds to operator region at rha operon. DeoR-family regulator RhaR controls FIGURE 2 | Genomic context of L-rhamnose catabolic genes in bacteria from seven diverse taxonomic lineages. RhaR activates rhaSR genes.	RhaR transcriptional regulons is in bacteria from diverse taxonomic lineages with experimental validation of L-Rha utilization system. RhaR is with previously unknown DNA motif.
rsep	\N	RseP PDZ domain is indispensable. RseP is important for σE acid induction.
teha	\N	tehA expression is in S. typhimurium nsrR mutant. tehA gene products are involved.
ycif	YciF proteins have have classiﬁed by Blattner et al. as putative structural protein respectively.	YciF is in AMM-2.
s54	Overlapping s54 control expression of glmY in Klebsiella. s54 regulate glmZ genes of S. typhimurium.	s54 is in Enterobacteriaceae.
flja	FljA binding to operator site on DNA. FljA control fliC mRNA translation. FljA binds to translationinitiation region of fliC 5 UTR. FljA bind RNA. Puriﬁed His-tagged FljA protein bind to ﬂiC mRNA. FljA controls later use of FliC protein. fljA gene encoding rHl. FljA inhibits translation of posttranslational use of FliC flagellin.	FljA belongs to superfamily. plasmid-encoded FljA protein is in iacP mutant strain. FljA is posttranscriptional regulator. FljA interacts with other sequences downstream from Dup-2. FljA is regulator of ﬂiC operon. FljA is responsible for posttranscriptional inhibition of FliC expression.
fljb	FljB synthesis have effect.	FljB synthesis is in iacP mutant results from ﬂagellar phase variation from increased transcriptional activity of ﬂjB promoter. FIG 3 FljB is regulated at transcriptional level by IacP. FljB are able.
asps	early-phase ASPs induce later-phase ASPs. 10 unique stationary-phase ASPs have In addition have identiﬁed.	several ASPs are only transiently produced.
speg	speG gene encoding spermidine acetyltransferase.	\N
rsea	\N	RseA σE complex is Following cleavage by RseP released from membrane.
norm	\N	multidrug efﬂux protein NorM is prototype.
yihe-dsba	\N	yihE-dsbA cotranscript is necessary for dsbA expression. yihE-dsbA cotranscript is necessary.
mta	\N	MTA are potent inhibitors.
hemh	hemH gene encodes redundant ferrochelatase activity. hemH mutants have However have isolated in S. typhimunum.	\N
hemn	hemN gene encodes oxygen-independent coproporphyrinogen oxidase.	52.8-kDa HemN protein is expressed. hemN are convergently transcribed.
ysha	YshA encodes putative outer membrane protein.	\N
heml	\N	hemL mutant is in two different E. coli backgrounds. hemL mutant strain is deletion mutant.
yiho	\N	YihO is importan. yihO is with putative promoter region replaced.
hemf	hemF gene encodes oxygen-dependent coproporphyrinogen oxidase. hemF have its own weak insertion ~ ~ ~ aciit. hemF encode oxygen-dependent cop-roporphyrinogen oxidase similar to yeast enzyme.	HemF is S. typhimurium coproporphyri-nogen oxidase. hemF constitute operon under control. hemF are cotranscribed.
heme	heme plays role in defense against toxic oxygen metabolite H2O2. heme is essential for activity of cytochromes in respiratory chains. Heme is required for growth on nonfermentable carbon sources.	heme biosynthetic pathway is in enteric bacteria. heme is In Salmonella typhimurium essential for respiration in defense against toxic oxygen metabolite H2O2. heme limitation is responsible for induction.
lrp	Lrp regulates type 1 ﬁmbrial genes in E. coli. Lrp play role in organization of bacterial chromatin. Lrp protein determine directionality of ﬁm switch DNA inversion in Escherichia coli K-12. lrp gene product affect expression of numerous operons including several involved in amino acid biosynthesis. Lrp regulate many ﬁmbrial genes. g006 Discussion Lrp is required for synthesis of type 1 fimbriae. Lrp activates genes for bio-synthetic enzymes. Lrp affects Salmonella virulence. Lrp is involved in inversion-dependent phase variation. Lrp act as positive for type 1 fimbriae production depending on intracellular levels. LRP binding to promoter region of fimZ. Lrp acts as positive regulator for type 1 ﬁmbriae production in Salmo-nella enterica serovar Typhimurium. global regulator Lrp contributes to mutualism in bacterium Xenorhabdus nematophila. Ge Lrp binds to ﬁmZ promoter region. Lrp proteins bind to PfimA. Lrp represses genes responsible for invasion of epithelial cells by Salmonella. lrp sequence have A.	Lrp is In serovar Typhimurium required for type 1 fimbriae production. Lrp binding sites are located far upstream from transcription start site. Lrp homologue is with 99 % amino acid sequence identity. lrp transcripts is in serovar Typhimurium SL1344 cells grown. Puriﬁed Lrp protein interacts with promoter regions of hilA genes.
sope2	SopE2 activate different sets of RhoGTPases of host cell. SopE2 contribute to Salmonella enterica serotype Typhi-murium invasion of epithelial cells. SopE2 act as G-nucleotide exchange factors.	sopE2 gene is present. sopE2 are representative members respectively.
cyaa	\N	CyaA fusion is with amino acids 1.
invf	InvF control expression of different sets of genes associated with SPI-1 type III protein secretion system. InvF activate expression of sopB. InvF play role in SPI4 activation. HilA-dependent invF expres-A sion activates HilC/D-dependent invFD expression. AraC-type transcriptional activator InvF is required for expression of genes. InvF regulate expression of phenotypes associated with centisome 63 type III secretion system. InvF controls expression. invF encode AraCtype transcriptional activator for review. InvF binding to internal promoter upstream of sicA. InvF induce expression of effector genes. RESULTS InvF is essential for expression of effector genes. invF gene encodes transcriptional regulator required for expression of sipA. InvF act as ampliﬁer of HilA activity. InvF binds to sequences upstream of sicA. InvF promotes expression of HilA-activated effector genes on SPI1.	InvF is AraC-like transcriptional regulator required for expression of secreted effectors encoded on SPI1. invF are regulatory genes. InvF is necessary for full expression of sipC. InvF belongs to AraC/XylS family of transcriptional regulators. invF mutant is with addition of hilA in multicopy. invF mutation is in strain. InvF interacts with SicA.
ugd	ugd encodes UDP-D-glucose dehydrogenase required for synthesis of Ara4N. ugd loci encode products necessary for polymyxin resistance.	ugd contains PmrA motifs. ugd transcription is in LB. Salmonella ugd gene is required for incorporation of 4-aminoarabinose in li-popolysaccharide.
mig-14	mig-14 contributes to Salmonella resistance to antimicrobial peptides. mig-14 contribute to antimicrobial peptide resistance. mig-14 play role in adaptive responses to membrane perturbations.	mig-14 expression is in macrophages. mig-14 is horizontally acquired gene required for Salmonella enterica lethal infection in murine model of typhoid fever. Mig-14 protein is necessary for resistance killing by antimicrobial peptides within host environment.
bla	bla gene encodes a major. bla mutants have have described earlier.	bla gene is in In pTZ18R also correct orientation for transcription from T7 promoter. Bla is secreted into periplasm in flk ΔflgHI strains. 3-lactamase Bla proteins are indicated. bla pSU19 is with HaeII fragment of pBCSK1.
entd	EntD is involved in biosynthesis of iron-acquiring siderophore enterobactin.	EntD is involved.
stm4519	\N	32 yhbU 29 Putative protease 32 STM4519 41b Putative NAD-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase is in LB medium between high-iron conditions 1.
srfb	\N	srfB are part. Putative transcriptional unit trg srfABC i36 trg srfB is with repeats.
ssag	\N	ssaG expression is in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi-murium. ssaG expression is strongly controlled.
malt	\N	malT is in that.
chev	\N	CheV functions is in S. enterica chemotaxis. CheV protein is fusion of CheW to CheY receiver domain. mannose-speciﬁc enzyme IIAB Methyl-accepting chemotaxis protein Outer membrane lipoprotein ATP-dependent RNA helicase-like protein Cytoplasmic protein Cytoplasmic protein Inner membrane protein Periplasmic protein Putative class 3 cheV is with proﬁles different from known.
sodcii	SodCII contribute to virulence.	enhanced sodCII expression is in Salmonella serovar Typhimurium ATCC 14028s slyA mutant. enhanced sodCII expression is simply compensatory phenomenon.
entc	\N	entC is in PNPase-deﬁcient MC71.
yihe	\N	yihE is in serovar Typhimurium. distal yihE promoter is upstream. YihE kinase is regulator of programmed cell death in bacteria.
sige	SigE have only 5.	sigE mutation would result is in rapid degradation of SigD. SigE is component of SPI1 secretion apparatus since absence of SigE. sigE are independent.
sigd	sigD allele encoding truncated SigD from pHH26. SigD have 16 cysteines.	less SigD is in supernatant preparations from SVM167. SigD is secreted protein required for efﬁcient invasion of Salmonella typhimurium into cultured eucaryotic cells. SigD are required.
core	core gene encoding tailspike protein. Core L inhibits response regulator-DNA binding for competence development in Bacillus subtilis. sciG core T6SS gene mutants have intracellular replication ratio of approximately 0.5.	Lipopolysaccharide inner core oligo-saccharide structure is in human pathogens belonging to Enterobacteriaceae. core form is multisubunit enzyme consisting of 2. core genes are In contrast modulated by H-NS homoligomers. duplicated core is with βββαβαβα topology.
flhdc	FlhDC play role in transcriptional regulation of genes. flhDC encoding master transcriptional regulator FlhD4C2. FlhDC regulates class 2 genes. flhDC encode genes required for hook-basal body formation. FlhDC complex activates class 2 promoter transcription.	FlhDC expression is in Proteus mirabilis. FlhDC complex is positive transcriptional activator. flhDC − strains are indicated in top panel.
stda	\N	stdA gene disruption is in immediate ancestor of strain SV503. stdA dam strain is more competitive.
dgoa	dgoA encode 2-oxo-3-deoxygalactonate-6-phosphate aldolase. dgoA affect resistance to high concentrations of iron in mouse model.	dgoA is predicted.
fold	\N	Fold induction is in indicated medium conditiona Result for promoter fusion pmrC. duplicated fold is structural basis. 2 fold is with 95 % confidence using. Fold changes are given for gene in response to H2O2 in different genetic backgrounds.
cheb	\N	CheB is in adaptation.
hydg	HydG is involved in regulation offdhF.	HydG is involved.
oxyr	OxyR control phase variation of gtrP22 promoter. OxyR activate transcription of specific genes involved in resistance to oxidative stress. mutant oxyR genes determine locations of mutations. OxyR activates expression of oxidative-stress-responding genes. OxyR is required for gtrP22 phase variation. OxyR regulate their own genes. OxyR binding mediates methylation protection. OxyR acts as transcriptional regulator irrespective of its oxidative state. OxyR half site affects promoter activity in OxyR-dependent manner. OxyR act as tetramer. OxyR induce expression. OxyR is essential for expression of STM2209-STM2208. OxyR protein binds to four adjacent major grooves of DNA helix. OxyR represses expression of oxyR gene independent of oxidative state of protein.	OxyR is bound at OxyR in ON phase at OxyR site in OFF phase. putative OxyR binding sites are Interestingly found. OxyR is member of family of LysR-type transcriptional regulators. OxyR is homologous to family of bacterial regulatory proteins. three OxyR half sites is with identical spacing. LysR-like factor 2 OxyR locks STM2209-STM2208 expression is in OFF state. OxyR is regulator of its own expression.
stm2922	STM2922 encodes putative decarboxylase.	\N
yoda	\N	YodA is metal-binding protein.
prsa	\N	37 °C Plasmid Description S. typhimurium prsA is in pUC19 t0 20 30 40 50 40.
cora	corA encodes single protein of about 40 kDa capable. corA defect can can rescued by complementation with functional S. enterica serovar Typhimurium corA allele. CorA have different maximal velocities of Corresponding author. CorA is involved in virulence. functional CorA protein is required for replication of S. enterica serovar Typhimurium within Caco-2 epithelial cells.	different CorA protein content is in cells grown. functional CorA protein is by scintillation counting RESULTS required for replication of S. enterica serovar Typhimurium within Caco-2 epithelial cells. CorA is part of broader signaling network within cell. S. enterica serovar Typhi-murium corA gene is with its native promoter from pRS170. CorA protein levels are signiﬁcantly higher.
hdfr	HdfR activates std transcription.	HdfR is std activator in absence of Dam methylation.
abc	\N	putative ABC transporter is in same group. homologous ABC transporters are In Bacillales groups co-regulated with several novel lineage-speciﬁc regulons. putative ABC transporter system is with speciﬁcity towards pentoses.
stm1328	STM1328 encode proteins found in outer membrane.	\N
sapa	\N	SapA contains its predicted periplasmic location.
ydgt	YdgT activate gene expression. Hha paralogue YdgT contributes to modulation of virulence genes in S. enterica serovar Typhimurium SPI2. YdgT have role. YdgT regulate flagellar biosynthesis. YdgT contribute to negative regulation of several virulence-associated genes in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium.	ydgT mutant strain is attenuated. hha ydgT double mutants are attenuated. YdgT forms is with H-NS.
stm1263	STM1263 inhibits isrD transcription.	STM1263 is in cis.
tolc	TolC efﬂux system plays role in pathogenesis. tolC is required for multidrug resistance stimulated by baeR overexpression.	outer membrane protein TolC is in maintenance of organic solvent tolerance of Escherichia coli K-12. TolC is In E. coli required for function of MdtABC multidrug efﬂux systems. TolC interacts with different drug efﬂux systems. tolC gene is expressed in complex laboratory media. TolC are required for Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium SL1344 colonize in poultry.
tolb	\N	tolB mutation is in pmrA mutant. TolB protein interacts with outer membrane peptidoglycan-associated proteins. tolB ATCC 14028s is with MudJ insertion in gnd ATCC 14028s.
tppb	tppB expression determine whetherfnr.	tppB is Independently of effects of tppA also induced by external leucine by anaerobiosis. tppB regulatory region contains only single OmpR-binding site.
sprb	SprB regulates expression of genes within SPI4. C SprB binds to PsiiA promoter region. SprB bind to HilD promoter. SprB represses SPI1 gene expression. SprB activate transcription of siiA. SprB activates SPI4 gene expression.	SprB is in fact. SprB is weak negative regulator. SprB is regulator of SPI1 gene expression.
stm1269	\N	STM1269 promoter pFPV25 is with yjdB promoter pFPV25.
rhat	\N	L-rhamnose permease RhaT is in Enterobacteriaceae.
sinr	SinR regulates B. subtilis. SinR affects sD activity. sinR encodes LysR family transcription factor. SinR is required for motility in B. subtilis. SinR positively regulates B. subtilis.	sinR is Furthermore located. sinR mutants are defective. sinR upstream region pAMD-BA-lacZ is with STM14_2343 upstream region pAMD-BA-lacZ.
prpe	prpE gene encoding propionyl-CoA synthetase enzyme. prpE gene encodes speciﬁc propionyl-CoA synthetase. prpE is involved in propionate catabolism. prpE encode acyl-CoA synthetases. PrpE activity is required for expression of prpBCDE operon.	prpE gene is part of prpBCDE operon under control. prpE gene is part of prpBCDE operon. prpE mutants is with otherwise wild-type genetic background.
csph	S. enterica serovar Typhimurium CspH bind to DNA. cspH promoter regions have only 52 % nucleotide identity.	CspH expression is in S. enterica serovar Typhimurium. cspH expression is also dependent on growth phase with maximal level at early log phase. cspH contains only one promoter at normal temperature during cold shock.
prlc	Escherichia coli prlC encodes endopeptidase.	\N
irap	small protein IraP binding to RssB protein. small anti-adopter protein IraP inhibits RssB/ClpXP-mediated degradation of RpoS in low Mg2.	iraP expression is in different ways. iraP gene is In addition necessary for stabilization after phosphate starvation in E. coli. iraP genes are necessary for normal RpoS levels during growth in low Mg2. iraP gene is necessary for stabilization after phosphate starvation in E. coli. IraP is important for stabilization of RpoS during phosphate starvation in E. coli.
cspe	CspE play role in transcription antiterminator.	\N
cspc	CspC play role in transcription antiterminator.	\N
stm2287	\N	STM2287 is expressed. STM2287 are expressed inversely.
cspa	CspA play role in transcription antiterminator.	CspA family is in Escherichia coli. CspA is RNA chaperone. CspA are induced at low temperature.
cysm	cysM encodes O-acetylserine.	cysM mutants are however cysteine bradytrophs.
rcsa	cofactor RcsA binding to ﬂhDC promoter region. cofactor RcsA regulate ﬂagellar regulon including FliZ. RcsA contributes to systemic infection. RcsA controls part of Rcs regulon of serovar Typhimurium. Escherichia coli RcsA activate its own expression. RcsA proteins have have shown.	auxiliary protein RcsA is in S. Typhimurium strain 14028. rcsA transcript is is detected in microarrays. RcsA coregulates is with RcsB. RcsA is regulator of transcription of cps genes necessary for capsule synthesis.
rcsb	two-component response regulator rcsb regulates type 1 piliation in Escherichia coli. response regulator RcsB activate RcsCDB phosphorelay system. RcsB regulate ﬂagellar regulon including FliZ. RcsB binding is required for stimulation of rcsA transcription. dephosphorylated RcsB play role in positive regulation of spvA. RcsB are important for systemic infection in mice. RcsB phosphorylation acts as key switch between planktonic life-styles in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium. unphosphorylated RcsB induce increase in csgD mRNA levels. rcsB is involved in regulation of Vi antigen synthesis. RcsB binds to speciﬁc site termed within class 1 promoter region. RcsB phosphorylated form bind promoter region of target genes required. RcsB P bind to RcsAB box in promoter region of several genes. RcsB represses expression of rcsB. RcsB promotes ydeI transcription. RcsB activates biosynthesis of Vi capsular polysaccharide. RcsB contribute to systemic infection in mice.	RcsB is required for expression of indicated genes i.e. positively regulated by RcsB. RcsB regulator constitute main components of RcsCDB system. rcsB loci are present exclusively in enterobacteria with exception of endosymbiotic bacteria. unphosphorylated RcsB is necessary for synthesis of bioﬁlm matrix compounds. RcsB box is part of large region bound by osmoregulator OmpR in E. coli. rcsB mutant is with wild type. potential RcsB protein binding site is in pmrA gene of S. Enteritidis. unphosphorylated RcsB is regulator of csgD.
rcsc	RcsC act as independent kinase proteins able. RcsC sensor kinase controls expression of regulon. RcsC have ability autophosphorylate. RcsC sensor kinase is required for normal bioﬁlm formation in Escherichia coli K-12. rcsC are important for systemic Salmonella enterica sero-var Typhimurium infection. RcsC contributes to persistent infection of mice. RcsC cytoplasmic regions induce RcsB. RcsC is involved in regulation of colanic acid production in E. coli. RcsC contribute to modulation of other Rcsdependent genes.	hybrid sensor RcsC constitute main components of RcsCDB system. RcsC contains HisKA domains. RcsC is important for antimicrobial peptide resistance for resistance to cationic peptide polymyxin B. Salmonella enterica rcsC mu ¬ tants is with constitutive activation of Rcs system. RcsC is important for systemic disease in two different mouse models of Salmonella infection. RcsC results is in different Rcs responses. rcsC are important for systemic Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium infection.
nlpd	\N	nlpD gene is in operon.
cysj	\N	cysJ genes are as part of cysteine regulon coordinately regulated in to cysteine levels.
cysg	Escherichia coli cysG gene encodes S-adenosylme-thionine-dependent uroporphyrinogen III methylase. few cysG mutants have have previously tested for B12 synthesis.	cysG gene is in operon with of structural gene for nitrite reductase. cysG gene is partially expressed. cysG genes are transcribed convergently.
nlpi	periplasmic lipoprotein NlpI represses rdar morphotype expression.	\N
cysa	\N	cysA gsr ptsI ptsH cysK cysZ dsd is in S. typhimurium. cysA is part. cysA is part of cysPTWA. cysA mutants are reported.
cysb	CysB protein activate transcription initiation. CysB regulates expression of Salmonella typhimurium cysteine regulon culminating in incorporation of reduced sulfur into L-cysteine. CysB protein inhibits transcription promoter initiation. Salmonella typhimurium CysB have have found. CysB activates in transcription initiation. cysB is required for efﬁcient expression of adi. CysB binding to adjacent sites. cysB gene encodes peptide subunit. single CysB tetramer binds to 45-bp site attribute of LysR-type proteins. CysB protein bind DNA. CysB positively regulates at least six different promoters. Purified CysB protein bind to sequences immediately upstream of -35 regions of S. typhimurium cysJIH.	cysB is as negatively autoregulated. cysB proteins are virtually identical. CysB belongs to LysR family. CysB protein tetramer concentrations is with assumption. CysB is member of group. low CysB protein concentrations is in absence of acetyl-L-serine. CysB tetramer interacts with different binding sites. CysB is regulator of adi transcription.
ybjg	\N	ybjG promoter pFPV25 is with STM1269 promoter pFPV25.
rpob	\N	rpoB mutations is in Escherichia coli.
rpoa	C-terminal rpoA mutants have property to considerably lesser degree.	rpoA mutation is shown.
hila	HilA control expression of different sets of genes associated with SPI-1 type III protein secretion system. HilA binding to PhilA promoter. HilA regulates expression of type III secretion system. hilA plays role in expression of Salmonella invasive phenotype. HilA activate expression from invF promoters. HilA box determine magnitude of HilA-dependent activation of PprgH from Sal-monella pathogenicity island 1. HilA affect SPI4 expression. HilA activates transcription o invFA required for secretion of effector proteins. hilA is required for transcriptional activation of essential invasion genes. HilA regulate expression of genes located outside SPI1 independently of InvF. hilA affects expression of invF. HilA controls expression of sopB under invasion-inducing conditions. HilA act as activator for sicA gene. HilA bind to neighboring sites. HilA acts as central regulator of HilA regulon. hilA encodes regulator of other three genes. HilA is involved in invasion of broad range of hosts. hilA regulators induce transcription. HilA binds to putative HilA box within sicA promoter region. HilA bind PsprB promoter. HilA represses its own expression. HilA promotes SPI4 expression. HilA encoding SPI-2 secretion system apparatus component. HilA can can converted to repressor. HilA have subtle effects.	HilA expression is in turn regulated by three AraC-like transcription factors with homologous DNA binding domains. hilA genes are repressed by response regulator PhoB in absence of Pst high-afﬁnity inorganic phosphate uptake system. HilA box contains direct repeat comprised of two hexamers separated by 5 nucleotides. HilA box is necessary for activation by HilA. HilA interacts with ampliﬁed spi4_H upstream region. hilA upstream region pAMD-BA-lacZ is with siiA upstream region pAMD-BA-lacZ. putative HilA box is important for HilA-dependent sicA induction. prgH HilA box 's activity is in absence of upstream sequences including half-site-like hexamers at 2106. HilA is regulator of serovar Typhimurium invasion genes.
rpoe	RpoE is involved in transcriptional activity of subset of virulence genes.	rpoE gene is negatively regulated. rpoE mutants are highly attenuated in vivo. rpoE is with endogenous promoters.
uspa	UspA proteins play role in stress sensing.	UspA proteins are thought.
rpoh	rpoH encoding 32.	rpoH is induced.
flgkl	\N	lower FlgKL levels is in ﬂgKL class 3 promoter mutant.
hima	\N	himA gyrB double mutant is Nonetheless more defective in supercoiling function than with model.
sirc	SirC contributes to invasive phenotype. sirC activate SPI-1 genes. SirC affect expression. SirC regulate hilA expression.	SirC is important for efﬁciency of induction of TTSS expression. sirC is environmentally regulated. sirC is part of SirA regulon. SirC are part of HilA-independent pathway to invasion gene expression.
sira	Salmonella SirA activate transcription of sigD-lacZYA construct. sirA encoding global response regulator. SirA regulates expression of SPI4 siiE gene in HilA-dependent manner. sirA orthologs have repressive effects. SirA orthologs affect virulence. sirA orthologs regulate evolutionarily conserved gene rpoS. sirA ortholog is required for extracellular enzyme production in Erwinia carotovora. Phosphorylated SirA activates transcription. SirA affects regulatory gene above ﬂhD. sirA orthologs encode two-com-ponent response regulator of FixJ family. sirA contribute to S. enterica surface attachment. SirA binding to 18-pb IR sequence located far upstream from promoter of genes. SirA acts as dimer. FIG 7 SirA controls csrC expression. SirA induce expression of several SPI4 genes. sirA is involved in biofilm formation of S. enterica on glass. sirA encodes Type VI secretion protein of EvpB family. SirA binds to sequence with dyad symmetry on regulatory region of csrB. Phosphorylated SirA bind hilA promoters. SirA positively regulates invasion of tissue culture. SirA bind to two central regulators of SPI1. SirA represses ﬂhD independently of hilA.	sirA ortholog is In V. cholerae required for expression of ToxR regulon of murine intestine. SirA orthologs are present with different names throughout proteobacteria. LT2-speciﬁc gene sirA belongs to BarA/SirA two-component regulatory system critical for bacterial bioﬁlm formation. SirA is responsible for environmental regulation of hilA expression. arabinose-conditional sirA strain is with deletion in hilA. SirA is member of ﬂagellar regulons in species. Km sirA is in SJW1103 Plasmids pTKY 748 pZA4 lacIq hilA Apr lacIq Specr. SirA interacts with invF promoter. Salmonella SirA is regulator of genes.
yifa	yifA homolog encodes putative LysR-like transcriptional regulator called.	\N
mnth	S. enterica serovar Typhimurium MntH contributes to H2O2 resistance. S. enterica serovar Typhimurium MntH function is required for full virulence.	mntH promoter contains putative sites for binding OxyR. mntH expression is in of exogenous peroxide. mntH is In of Mn2 repressed primarily by Salmonella equivalent of E. coli b0817 acting through inverted-repeat motif located between likely 10 polymerase binding site. Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium divalent cation transport sysG169 tems MntH are essential for virulence in Nramp1 murine typhoid model.
ymda	\N	ymdA is in ﬂagellin ABC superfamily.
avra	\N	avrA is homologous to avirulence genes of plant pathogens. avrA is homologous.
rpmi	\N	RPMI 1640 is with 5 % fetal calf serum.
aph	\N	aph is in expression relative to SL1344 Gene/operon of encoded protein L884 L109 L110 SPI-1 genes. ApH is component. aph is with fresh human serum.
ompr-envz	ompR-envZ two component regulatory system plays role in regulation of Vi polysaccharide synthesis in S. typhi. OmpR-EnvZ system regulates ompF. two-com-ponent regulatory system ompR-envZ controls virulence of Shigella ﬂex-neri. OmpR-EnvZ contribute to Figure 1B. OmpR-EnvZ two-component system is involved in regulation of Vi synthesis in S. typhi.	OmpR-EnvZ regulatory system is in S. enterica serovar Typhimurium. ompR-envZ promoter is induced by high concentrations of novobiocin at late stages of growth.
baer	BaeR regulates transcription of mdt-bae operon. 1 BaeR determine due to direct interaction of BaeR with promoter regions of sodA. BaeR regulate RND efflux pumps. BaeR is required for tungstate waste disposal. BaeR activates expression of multifunctional outer membrane channel gene tolC in S. enterica. BaeR controls expression of mdtABC. BaeR binding to promoter regions of acrD. B BaeR protein binds to promoter region of mdtA. BaeR positively regulates sodA. baeR growth can can complemented by secreted factor present in wild type.	BaeR is required for Salmonella survival in presence of 30mM tungstate through regulation of RND type multidrug transporters. BaeR protein are more abundant in stationary phase. BaeR box is in region upstream of mdt operon.
baes	\N	baeS are found.
yhgf	\N	YhgF contains similarity.
deor	deoR repressor binds to its natural operator sites.	E. coli DH5a endA1 hsdR17 supE44 thi-1 recA1 pyrA relA1 D U169 deoR Plasmids pSX34 pBAD18 pSL2237 pSL2570 pSC101 derivative Cmr araC-PBAD plasmid slyA is in pSC101 pSX34. DeoR is effective repressor.
ydci	ydcI gene regulates genes. ydcI gene is required for full acid stress resistance of S. Typhimurium under conditions studied here. YdcI controls genes. ydcI is involved in its autoregulation in S. Typhimurium. ydcI gene plays role in transmission of low ﬂuid shear environmental signal in S. Typhimurium. ydcI gene encodes conserved DNA binding protein involved with aspects of prokaryotic biology related to stress resistance. ydcI has role in transmission of low ﬂuid shear environmental cue to bacterial cells beyond experiments performed here.	ydcI gene is clearly expressed in bacteria under standard culture conditions. ydcI are part of same pathway. S. Typhimurium gene ydcI belongs to aforementioned class. ydcI is part of rpoS regulon related to stress resistance. C YdcI gel shift reaction mixtures is with labeled H3 probe. ydcI gene is expressed in different bacterial genera. YdcI DNA binding activity functions is in bacterial cells.
sita	SitA is required for Salmo-nella spp.	SitA is also required. sitA are regulated by iron concentration.
cyoabcde	cyoABCDE genes encoding cyto-chrome bo.	cyoABCDE genes are overexpressed.
deoc	\N	deoC is in plant pathogen A. tumefaciens.
chip	12 10 8 6 4 2 ChIP Scor 0 fA regulates STM2239 expression.	greatest ChIP enrichment is in tviA upstream region determined by sequencing. whole genome ChIP ana-lysis demonstrated is up-regulated. ChIP methods are based. CM5 sensor chip is with immobilized EIIANtr.
abrb	\N	AbrB DNA binding domain is in its N-terminus. AbrB is Hence good candidate.
shda	shdA gene contributes to efﬁcient fecal shedding. ShdA adhesin binds to cationic cradle of ﬁbronectin 13FnIII repeat module.	ShdA is ﬁbronectin-binding.
hyce	\N	HycE is in FHL complex STM2855 hypB 8.84 2.79 Hydrogenase-3 accessory protein.
pflb	\N	pflB mutation is in Salmonella.
eutb	eutB genes encode two subunit types of ethanolamine ammonia t Present address.	wild-type eutB subunit is capable.
yaho	\N	yahO is located downstream from prpR in serovar Typhimurium.
eco	\N	Eco lamB1 is in genotypes expressed from pBR322 tet promoter.
phoq-phop	PhoQ-PhoP phosphorelay system mediates AMP resistance.	\N
eutd	eutD gene encodes unknown function.	\N
eute	eutE gene encodes second enzyme in degradative pathway.	\N
pfs	Pfs is involved in methionine metabolism. pfs gene product is required for AI-2 production.	pfs expression proﬁle is in Salmonella serovar Typhimurium 14028/pAB13. pfs expression proﬁle is indicated by solid line in Sal-monella serovar Typhimurium SS007 by dashed line. puriﬁed Pfs are necessary for AI-2 production in vitro with SAH as substrate. increased pfs expression is with cyanocobalamin.
sra	\N	srA binding sites is in 5 ′ untranslated leader sequences.
stm1703	STM1703 act as PDEs.	STM1703 are upregulated.
eutr	EutR protein plays role in operon expression. eutR mutants induce transcription of eut operon. EutR protein controls its own production. 14028 eutR activates eut operon. eutR gene product is required for only induction of eut operon transcription. EutR function can can provided by intact chromosomal eutR gene.	EutR are Thus required for wild-type-like growth of S. Typhimurium during infection of C. elegans. eutR is in milk well with pattern of PeutS expression. eutR gene is expressed by weak constitutive promoter activity by main regulated promoter.
csgd	phosphorylated CsgD activate csgBA transcription. CsgD regulates serine hydroxymethyltransferase synthesis in Escherichia coli K-12. putative CsgD binding sites have have found upstream from csgB promoters. unphosphorylated CsgD efﬁciently activates ﬁmbria production. CsgD is required for cellular aggregation during rdar morphotype development. CsgD regulate production of extracellular matrix components. CsgD affects three-dimensional structure of ﬂow cell-formed bioﬁlms. U. Unphosphorylated CsgD controls bioﬁlm formation. CsgD contributes to cellulose production. CsgD is essential for c-di-GMP-mediated induction of bioﬁlm formation. CsgD binds to conserved 11-bp sequences upstream of csgB promoters. CsgD positively regulates transcription. CsgD promotes primary attachment to glass surface. CsgD expression can On other hand can modulated epigenetically by secondary messenger c-di-GMP.	CsgD is In addition regulated by second messenger c-di-GMP at transcriptional levels. CsgD are major targets for regulation by c-di-GMP signaling. CsgD expression is with formation of multicellular communities of cells. CsgD is expressed in bistable manner. csgD open reading frame is in its native chromosomal locus with help of Lambda Red recombination technology.
phoq	PhoQ activates PhoP. PhoQ is required for PhoP-mediated activation of phoPQ. phoQ represses hilA. Salmonella PhoP PhoQ system controls expression of 3 % of genome. PhoP PhoQ system promotes higher levels of RpoS protein. PhoQ have phosphatase activity upon phospho-PhoP. PhoQ induce TCRS-mediated gene activation.	Salmonella typhimurium PhoQ histidine kinase sensor is in proteoliposomes. S. Typhimurium phoQ mutant is For example consistently less ﬁt for survival in intracellular environment than spiC-deﬁ-cient isogenic controls. PhoP PhoQ system effects are physiologically relevant. phoQ locus mutant is with PhoP-constitutive phenotype grown in conditions.
phop	PhoP control SpiR sensor kinase of SPI-2 master SsrB/SpiR regulatory system. PhoP regulates at least two separate networks of genes responsible for cationic antimicrobial peptide resistance. PhoP protein plays role in Salmonella pathogenesis. expressed phoP inhibits mouse-virulence of Salmonella typhi-murium. phoP ssrA mutants have survival characteristics. PhoP activate transcription binding to their intergenic regions simultaneously. PhoP activates expression of pmrD gene. PhoP is required for transcription of sense mgtCBR transcript. phoP regulate levels of orgA transcript. PhoP affects transcription of colanic capsule genes. Salmonella PhoP PhoQ system controls expression of 3 % of genome. Phosphorylated PhoP activate transcription. Salmonella PhoP protein binding to distinct sites in iraP promoter. PhoP contributes to activation of SPI-2 type three secretion system required for establishment. PhoP is involved in survival. phoP locus encodes two proteins with homology to regulators-receivers respectively. PhoP binds to promoters of target genes resulting in activation. PhoP positively regulates expression of slyA. PhoP proteins bind to intergenic regions. PhoP ;P represses hilA. phosphorylated PhoP protein promotes transcription of rstA.	PhoP is also homologous to deduced amino acid sequence of second open reading frame present in phoM operon to regulators. PhoP regulons are activated inside macrophages by sublethal concentrations of cat-ionic antimicrobial peptide polymyxin. PhoP is homologous to deduced amino acid sequence of second open reading frame present in phoM operon. PhoP is member of OmpR subclass of transcriptional activators. phoP is necessary for induction of mig-14 in response to protamine. MudJ phoP mutant Salmonella strain is with partially Sau3AI-digested Salmonella phoPQ DNA chromosomal library generated in plasmid pBBR1-MCS2. phoP transcriptional studies is in 96-well plates for macrophage-killing. 2 þ PhoP regulatory protein interacts with mgtCB promoter. phoP gene product is regulator of gene expression.
phor	PhoR acts as phosphatase.	\N
this	this regulates SPI1 expression. This have evolutionary consequences.	j.vreede@uva.nl This is Open Access article distributed under terms of Creative Commons-Attribution Noncommercial License. this are single.
cap	CAP regulates activity of adenylate cyclase. CAP acts as repressor for crp expression. CAP binds to speciﬁc site within ﬂhDC promoter region. their CAP binding sites have have determined.	Pole cap formation is in Escherichia coli. CAP effect is direct. ﬁlament cap protein FliD are also expressed from.
stm4432	\N	STM4432 is part.
cat	-140 -120 -100 -60 -60 5-TTT ACG CGT CAT ATGAAGATATTCCTGGCTGAGTCGGTGAAAGTCAGGCCACAGATTAACCACTACCACAATAGACGTCAATACATCTGGAC Lys Arg Thr Met bind two regions. cat gene encoding resistance to chloramphen-icol.	cat strain is in competitive infections of animals. cat gene is transcribed in clockwise direction through EcoRI site toward HindIII site in promoter of tet gene. CAT cassette Lambda-Red recombinase expression plasmid Broad-range cloning vector is with agitation at 50 r.p.m.. CAT Nair Ts Nal Cs pKO100 Nalr are depicted.
stm2209-stm2208	g010 STM2209-STM2208 expression can can expected.	g010 STM2209-STM2208 expression is in wild type populations of Salmonella. Results STM2209-STM2208 is Salmonella-specific locus STM2209. STM2209-STM2208 transcripts are more abundant.
flk	membrane protein Flk regulates translation of ﬂagellum-speciﬁc anti-sigma factor. Flk acts as regulator of flagellar gene expression. Flk plays role in transition from export of hook subunits to export of class 3 proteins including ﬂagel-lin. Flk bind ribosomes. Flk inhibits FlgM secretion. two plasmid-encoded flk constructs determine effect of C-terminal hydrophobic tail on membrane localization Flk. Flk is involved in double-lock gating mechanism for flagellar-associated T3S apparatus. Flk protein regulate ﬂgM mRNA translation.	Flk couples ﬂgM translation is in Salmonella typhi-murium. Flk is inserted into cytoplasmic membrane via its C-terminal 18-amino-acid hydrophobic stretch facing into cytoplasm. S. typhimurium Flk are rich.
phob	PhoB regulate hilA expression. PhoB binds to sequence present in promoter regions of several PhoB-regulated genes including phoBR operon. PhoB ;P represses hilA genes. S. typhimurium phoB mutants have allele replacement by DNA hybridization. PhoB ;P activates promoters.	PhoB is responsible for environmental regulation of hilA expression. PhoB is responsible for environmental regulation of hilA expression. phoB are closely linked in E. coli.
nine	\N	Nine unique repeating sequences is in region essential for replication of mini-F plasmid. nine residues are highly conserved. nine mutants is with mutations.
thil	thiL locus encodes TMP kinase from thiamine phosphate.	thiL locus is in S. typhimurium.
yihv	\N	lower yihV expression is in presence of AgfD.
yihw	YihW regulates expression of yihU-OyshA. yihW encodes promoter-lux fusion assays.	\N
acka-pta	ackA-pta operon encoding phosphate acetyltransferase.	ackA-pta mutant deﬁcient is in production of formate.
male	\N	folding-defective MalE protein is at lower levels of expression degraded by DegP.
thie	\N	thiE gene is homologous.
yihq	isogenic deletion mutants yihQ encoding putative glucosyltransferase. YihQ is involved in capsule assembly.	YihQ is member. YihQ is member of family 31 glycosyl hydrolases.
spvb	SpvB is involved in SCV maturation.	S. typhimurium LT2 spvB structural gene is in its native context on single-copy virulence plasmid. spvB gene product is mono transferase. SpvB are effectors translocated by T3SS2. spvB is expressed in stationary growth phase.
spva	spvA regulates expression of spvR. diminished spvA expression can In summary can consequence of high RcsB P/RcsB ratio existing upon stimulation of RcsC3RcsD3RcsB phosphorelay.	spvA mRNA expression is in bacteria grown. spvA is in concordance with microarray data downregulated in igaA1 mutant in strains. spvA promoters are recognized.
ach	\N	ACH derivatives are much more stable.
spvd	\N	SpvD are produced.
spr	\N	SPR measurements is in presence of FlgM. SPR technique is used most reliably.
ygim	ygiM gene product have Src homology.	\N
cpxp	periplasmic chaperone CpxP binds to CpxA peri-plasmic domain.	CacA-mediated cpxP activation is dependent.
spvr	spvR gene product regulates expression of downstream spvB gene. LT2 spvR gene encoding active SpvR protein. SpvR activates promoters. SpvR is required for katF-dependent transcription of spvR in stationary phase. SpvR act as positive regulator of other virulence genes. spvR gene product acts as transcriptional activator for spvABCD genes. spvR encodes positive regulatory protein for other plasmid-encoded virulence factors. SpvR mediates coordinate regulation of plasmid virulence genes. SpvR promotes transcription of downstream spvABCD genes.	spvR promoter is proficient for transcription in absence of cAMP-CRP. spvR mutants are Intriguingly defective. SpvR is with S. typhi-murium MetR. spvR is expressed in trans. regulatory gene spvR is in growth phase-dependent regulation of spvABCD operon. SpvR is regulator of at least three essential virulence genes.
hha	Nucleoid protein Hha binding to H-NS. Hha regulates Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium hilA modulator of Salmonella pathogenicity island 1. Hha activate gene expression. Hha have role. Hha proteins regulate ﬂagellar genes. histonelike protein Hha acts as repressor of hilA. Hha affects regulators. hha plays role in hilA expression. Hha paralogue YdgT contributes to modulation of virulence genes in S. enterica serovar Typhimurium SPI2. hha encodes negative regulator of serovar Typhimurium hilA invasion transcriptional activator. Hha protein binds to hilA upstream regulatory sequences. puriﬁed Hha protein bind to hilA DNA promoter fragment. Hha represses SPI1 expression.	Hha is major repressor responsible for silencing virulence genes carried in Salmonella pathogenicity island 2 prior to bacteria. Hha are repressors of type III secretion system encoded. predicted Salmonella Hha protein identiﬁed proteins is with signiﬁcant homology to Hha. Hha protein is member of family. hha ydgT-mediated gene deregulation is in LB medium. Hha is regulator of S. enterica serovar Typhimurium invasion gene transcriptional activator hilA.
tag	C-terminal FLAG tag binding to ompC. Elk tag encoding SV40 large tumor antigen nuclear localization signal. FLAG tag have negative effect.	tet template FLAG tag expression vector Integrational plasmid is in pMW118 stm3169. tet template FLAG tag expression vector Integrational plasmid is with promoterless lacZ gene Expression vector.
ygiw	OB-fold protein ygiW contribute to polymyxin B resistance.	ygiW mutants are sensitive to polymyxin B. Strains with indicated gene deleted.
feoc	FeoC protein regulates transcription of feoB gene. FeoC protein binds to FeoB transporter. FeoC protein bind to FeoB transporter. FeoC protein contributes to increase in FeoB protein levels at posttranslational level.	FeoC protein interacts with FeoB transporter. FIG 1 FeoC protein is necessary for high cellular levels of FeoB Fe transporter under low-oxygen. FIG 1 FeoC protein is necessary.
feob	FeoB expression contribute to Salmonella 's ability grow under Fe2.	FeoB protein levels is in strains deleted for chromo ¬ FeoC protein. FeoB protein is authentic Fe transporter consisting of N-terminal cytoplasmic domain. membrane protein FeoB contains intramolecular G protein essential for Fe uptake in bacteria. FeoB transporter levels are negatively controlled.
mgta	mgtA expression can However can markedly induced via PhoP/PhoQ two-component system upon response to stimuli. mgtA contributes to mechanism of Rob-mediated resistance to cyclohexane in Sal-monella. PhoP-depen-dent mgtA promoter controls mgtA expression over whole range of Mg2 concentrations tested. mgtA leader region promotes transcription of mgtA coding region in low Mg2. MgtA have different maximal velocities of Corresponding author. MgtA is involved in AcrAB-mediated cyclohexane detoxiﬁcation mechanism promoted by Rob in Salmonella. mgtA expression mediates Salmonella enterica resistance phenotype. mgtA is required for normal cell growth in Mg2-restricted minimal liquid medium. mgtA gene encodes slightly smaller protein with predicted molecular mass of about 95 kDa running at 91 kDa. mgtA contribute to acrAB-dependent solvent efﬂux mechanism.	mgtA LR is in similarly DNA templates corresponding to wild-type. mgtA transcription is Additionally differentially and more sensitively regulated in to Mg2 availability with its promoter. mgtA genes are paradigm genes for two types of regulation reported for PhoP-PhoQ system. mgtA expression is with defective mgtA riboswitch due replacement of 100-bp sequence corresponding to positions 148 247 in wildtype mgtA 5 leader by 84-bp scar sequence.
mgtb	mgtB genes induce their respective coding regions. mgtB encodes 22.5-kDa protein of unknown function. MgtB have different maximal velocities of Corresponding author. mgtB contribute to overall Mg2 uptake.	SPI-3 gene mgtB is in livers. mgtB gene is also up-regulated. mgtB is part of small operon with companion mgtC gene. MgtB are In particular quite similar following conserved phosphorylation site. Mg2 MgtB is with apparent role in virulence.
feoa	\N	FeoA proteins constitute Feo system. FeoA protein is necessary. feoA genes are likely.
ygiy	\N	YgiY is predicted.
glms	\N	glmS binding site is exclusively present.
pqab	Salmonella typhi melittin resistance gene pqaB affects intracellular growth in PMA-differentiated U937 cells.	\N
purr	Escherichia coli gene purR encoding repressor protein for purine nucleotide synthesis.	purR mutation is when present.
mntr	MntR control sitABCD operon. MntR bind to Fur binding site. MntR binds to heterologous binding site. MntR represses two Mn2 uptake systems. MntR activates YbiR Mn2 efﬂux transporter.	MntR is regulator of sit operon. MntR belongs to DtxR family. four MntR binding sites is in S. enterica serovar Typhimurium LT2 sequence. MntR is main transcriptional regulator of sit operon in response to Mn. mntR strain is with mutated Fur binding site. MntR are strictly speciﬁc for Fe2 respectively in E. coli.
narz	\N	narZ transcriptional activity is in otherwise wild-type rstA strain. narZ is ﬁrst gene of Salmonella narZYWV operon.
dsra	DsrA is involved in repression of H-NS in mutants. DsrA RNA regulates translation of RpoS message.	DsrA is when overexpressed.
stib	stiB locus is required for starvation survival of S. typhi-murium.	stiB locus is also required.
stic	\N	stiC locus is in region. stiC are key starvation survival genes in rpoS-dependent system.
stia	rpoS-dependent starvation-stress response locus stiA encodes nitrate reductase required for carbon-starvation-inducible thermotolerance in Salmonella typhimurium.	stiA is in rpoS. stiA are key starvation survival genes in rpoS-dependent system.
trxb	trxB Thioredoxins control bacterial stress response.	\N
purb	\N	purB genes is with ﬂgM5208-lacZ gene fusion located at join point of duplicated region.
asma	asmA mutations activate MarA-regulated efﬂux pump hitherto unknown. asmA gene encodes protein of 70 kDa located in outer membrane. AsmA is required for optimal invasion of intestinal epithelium.	asmA derivatives is in other S. enterica mutants known such phoP. asmA is transcribed in same orientation as that of udk respectively.
phon	\N	phoN gene is in S. Typhimurium. phoN gene is dispensible.
pure	\N	purE gene is coregulated.
purd	\N	purD gene is linked.
ssel	SseL is required for virulence during infection of mice.	sseL is in S. enterica serotype Typhimurium. SseL is Salmonella-speciﬁc translocated effector integrated into SsrB-controlled Salmonella pathogenicity island 2 type III secretion system. SseL is with GFP fused in frame to amino terminus. RESULTS SseL is member of SsrB regulon. SseL is expressed in SsrB-depen-dent manner. SseL are effectors translocated by T3SS2.
narg	\N	narG is in nap operon encoding.
ssei	Salmonella SPI2 effector SseI mediates long-term systemic infection.	\N
csp	Csp family members have their respective optimal temperature ranges.	\N
ssej	\N	sseJ expression is in elevated Fe3. SseJ is secreted.
lamb	\N	lamB is induced approximately 17-fold.
hema	hemA gene encodes glutamyl-tRNA reductase. HemA enzyme can can accumulated. hemA mutants have same growth characteristics.	HemA induction is in adapted hemL mutant strains of E. coli. HemA regulation is mediated either at step after transcription initiation through modulation of protein stability.
tnpr	\N	promoterless tnpR is with promoterless tnpRmut168-lacZY.
envz	EnvZ regulates expression of porins encoded by ompC. envZ have roles. EnvZ regulate transcription of tppB. EnvZ is required for induction of ssaG-gfp by medium shift. sensor protein EnvZ controls phosphorylation of OmpR. EnvZ induce expression of hilA again in manner dependent. envZ is essential for SPI2 expression. EnvZ affect hilA expression.	EnvZ is responsible for environmental regulation of hilA expression. EnvZ are pleiotropic regulatory proteins. EnvZ is necessary for induction of SPI2 expression by chelators. EnvZ is responsible for environmental regulation of hilA expression. osmolarity-sensing gene EnvZ is in E. coli.
hmpa	\N	hmpA is Thus repressed.
adiy	AdiY acts as conditional regulator for adiA. adiY is essential for induction of arginine-dependent AR in Salmo-nella. AraC-like regulator AdiY is involved in regulation of adiA.	AdiY is in Enterobacteriaceae. AraC-like regulator AdiY is also involved.
soda	\N	sodA expression is in wild-type strain. SodA activity is induced in S. enterica serovar Typhimurium upon exposure to PQ in soxRS-dependent manner. SodA are cytosolic superoxide dismutases of S. Typhimurium.
spot	\N	SpoT contains synthetase activities. spot numbers is in additional file. SpoT synthesizing activity is In addition inhibited during amino acid downshift concomitant with activation of RelA enzyme. predominant spot is with much less abundant spot corresponding to Trigger factor.
hsls	\N	HSLs are synthesized by LuxI family of HSL synthases above threshold concentrations bind to their cognate receptor proteins.
adia	\N	adiA gene products are critically important.
yjeb	yjeB gene encodes nitric oxide-sensitive transcriptional regulator.	\N
yhiq	\N	YhiQ homologs is in region of ORF between GTG start codon. E. coli yhiQ gene is located immediately downstream from prlC. yhiQ constitute operon. yhiQ are Thus indeed previously unidentiﬁed heat shock genes.
arcb	\N	ArcB autophosphorylates is in ATP dependant intramo-lecular reaction at position His-292. ArcB activity is regulated in to oxygen conditions by redox state of ubiquinone.
farr	FarR represses expression of genes.	E. coli FarR is thought.
glpc	\N	glpC expression is induced under anaerobic conditions at exponential phase.
otsba	\N	otsBA operon is known.
rybb	\N	σE-dependent sRNA RybB is in Salmonella. RprA E. coli ydiK ydiL RybB E. coli SL0845 SL0846 72 75 5 109 are shown.
prob	\N	proB mutant is in media lacking.
ilvy	IlvY regulate their own genes. ilvY gene acts as antiterminator at site between ilv Y. ilvY gene product has role in expression of ilvC.	ilvY is when provided in trans induction of ilvC. ilvY structural gene are contained within XhoI-SaiI fragment.
cpxra	CpxRA pathway is required for maximal expression of virF.	Gmr pRDH10 cpxA cpxRA is in pWSK29 lacZ reporter plasmid cpxRA promoter. CpxRA pathway is In Shigella sonnei required for maximal expression of virF.
hfq	Hfq control Salmonella gene expression at post-transcriptional level. Sm-like protein Hfq regulates polyadenylation dependent mRNA decay in Escherichia coli. conserved RNA-binding protein Hfq plays role in microbial response to space flight conditions. Sm-like RNA chaperone Hfq mediates transcription antitermination. hfq cells have sevenfold-reduced levels of hilC. Hfq play role in regulation of translational machinery itself. functional hfq gene is required for efﬁcient translation of sta-tionary-phase sigma factor RpoS. Hfq regulate expression within host. Hfq affects intrinsic acriﬂavine resistance of Salmonella. Hfq controls expression of Salmonella genes in several horizontally acquired pathogenicity islands. Hfq is involved in bacterial space flight response confirmed in ground-based model of microgravity conditions. Hfq binding to translational initiation region of target. Hfq contributes to polarity suppression in rho mutants. RNA chaperone Hfq is essential for virulence of Salmonella typhimurium. Hfq binds to RNA molecules. Hfq protein bind Rho. Hfq positively regulates production of AcrB drug efﬂux pump. Hfq represses translation of genes. Hfq promotes expression of large class of ribosomal structural protein genes.	functional hfq gene is required for efﬁcient translation of sta-tionary-phase sigma factor RpoS in S. typhimurium. Hfq are major contributors to multicellular development in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimuri. hfq 3 Cm strain contains insertion of same cassette immediately downstream of WT hfq ORF. chromosomal hfq gene is part of complex operon. S. typhimurium hfq mutant is with katE-lac fusion. RNA-binding protein Hfq is member of Sm protein family. hfq insertion mutation is in Esch-erichia coli K-12.
stm3171	\N	STM3171 are located immediately downstream from STM3169.
ssrab	SsrAB activate gene expression in phoP mutants. two-component regulatory system SsrAB controls expression of SPI-2 genes. SsrAB activates regulon encoded outside SPI-2 including at least ﬁve SPI-2 TTSS effectors. SsrAB two-component system is required for activation of ssaG promoter.	two-component regulatory system SsrAB is in SPI-2. ssrAB expression is induced by HilD in late stationary phase well beyond time point of our ChIP-seq experiment.
ilvd	\N	ilvD is derepressed.
stra	\N	STRA strains is with overproduction of RamA.
ilva	\N	ilvA is derepressed.
kdpd	two-component sensor kinase KdpD is required for Salmonella typhimurium colonization of Caenorhabditis elegans in macrophages.	putative osmosensor KdpD is in Escherichia coli. 2002 16 Macrophage kdpD is differentially transcribed.
sdia	SdiA bind its activators. SdiA controls expression of virulence factors in enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli O157. SdiA regulates its own expression. S. typhimurium sdiA activate E. coli ftsQAZ. sdiA genes encode LuxR homologs. E. coli SdiA activates ftsQ.	arabinose-conditional sdiA background is in isogenic control background BA612/pBAD33. sdiA is when expressed from its natural position in Salmonella serovar Typhimurium chromosome. sdiA genes are predicted. 14028 sdiA mutant is with AHL-C6. S. typhimurium sdiA is expressed in presence of arabinose.
ding	Ding is essential for Vibrio cholerae virulence.	Ding is essential.
ompw	ompW gene mediates methyl viologen efflux. ompW encodes porin involved in osmoregulation.	OmpW expression is in S. enterica serovar Typhimurium DmarA. 59 CCGCCGCGAGTTCGATCGCACTCCCAGCGATTACCGTCAAGAAACAGCGCCACGGTGGTT-39 59-CTCCCGTTAGCCAATCCGCTAACCACCGTGGCGCTGTTTCTTGACGGTAATCGCTGGGAG-39 59-CGCGGATCCTTAATCATCTTCAAGCAGCC-39 pBR322_MarA_BamHI_Rv pBR322_SoxS_EcoRI_Fw pBR322_Rob_BamHI_Fw pBR322_Rob_EcoRI_Rv ompW_RT_Fw 59-CGCGGATCCGAAACAGCGCCACGGTGGTT-399 59-CCGGAATTCTTGACGGTAATCGCTGGGAG-39 59-CGCGGATCCGCCCGTTTTCGCCCGGCTAA-39 59-CCGGAATTCAAAATATCCCCATCCTTTCA-39 59-ATGAAAAAATTTACAGTGG-39 ompW_RT_Rv marA_RT_Fw marA_RT_Rv soxS_RT_Fw soxS_RT_Rv 59-GAAACGATAGCCTGCCGA-39 59-TTCATAGCATTTTGGACTGG-39 59-TAGAGAATGGGCTCGTTGCT-39 59-GCGGATGTTTCGTACGGTAA-39 59-GGTGACGGTAATCGCTGGGA-39 rob_RT_Fw rob_RT_Rv 16S_RT_Fw 16S_RT_Rv 59-CCGCTGTCACTTGACAATGT-39 59-GTTTGCTGAGAATCGAAGCG-39 59-GTAGAATTCCAGGTGTAGCG-39 59-TTATCACTGGCAGTCTCCTT-39 ompW is positively regulated. OmpW is necessary for H2O2 uptake.
h-ns	H-NS nucleoprotein complexes control hylE expression in Escherichia coli K-12. H-NS binding to curved AT-rich DNA region upstream of leuO promoter. H-NS regulates hilA expression in Salmonella serovar Typhimurium. H-NS can Second can out-competed by DNA-binding proteins with higher binding affinity. H-NS activate class 1 expression. DNA-binding protein H-NS have related functions. H-NS regulate expression. nucleoid-associated DNA-binding protein H-NS is required for efﬁcient adaptation of Escherichia coli to cold environment. H-NS affects hilD mRNA levels. H-NS is involved in adaptative response of bacterial cells to changes in environmental factors. H-NS act as transcriptional repressor. H-NS dsbA plays role in proper folding of many proteins. H-NS acts as pleiotropic regulator of gene expression. H-NS controls gene expression. H-NS is essential for prevention of decreased ﬁtness associated with uncontrolled expression of pathogenicity island genes. et al. H-NS mediates silencing of laterally acquired genes in bacteria. H-NS binds to many Salmonella genes acquired by lateral gene transfer. nucleoid associated protein H-NS bind AT-rich sequences of HGT DNA of genes. H-NS protein bind to AT-rich genes in two different S. typhimurium strains grown in two distinct media. H-NS represses expression of virulence genes present on pathogenicity islands in various Gram-negative bacteria including Salmonella.	H-NS is For example at ilvIH-leuO-leuABCD gene cluster of S. typhimurium initially thought. H-NS protein levels are Under growth conditions higher in wild type than in strain NLM2173 during log phase growth. H-NS is part of thermally controlled mechanism for bacterial gene regulation Temperature. H-NS binding is with base-composition features of DNA such curvature. H-NS belongs to superfamily of bacterial nucleoid-associated proteins. H-NS binding site is in promoter region of serotype Typhimurium misL gene. chromatin-associated protein H-NS interacts with curved DNA to inﬂuence DNA topology.
ompr	OmpR proteins control expression levels of SsrA. OmpR regulates stationary-phase acid tolerance response of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium. OmpR activate transcription of ssrAB genes. OmpR binding have repressive effect. ompR regulate SsrA-SsrB two-compo-nent system encoded in SPI2. OmpR is required for increase in SPI2 expression. OmpR regulator activates PhoP protein does so for ssrB transcription at posttranscriptional level via as yet undetermined mechanism. OmpR controls transcription of its regulon members. ompR are important for effective acid induction of sta-tionary-phase ATR. OmpR act as global regulator of transcription. OmpR contribute to induction of SPI-2 gene expression in response to environmental stimuli. regulatory protein OmpR plays role in controlling acid induction of stationary-phase ATR. OmpR acts as positive regulator of hilC. ompR encode elements of bacterial two-component regulatory systems PhoP-PhoQ respectively. ompR gene is involved in regulation of synthesis of Vi capsular polysaccharide. Perspective OmpR protein binds to much larger number of targets. OmpR bind demonstrating. OmpR positively regulates its transcription. OmpR bind to promoter of SPI-2 gene regulator ssrAB. OmpR represses ﬂhDC. E. coli ompR orthologue can can made by introduction of appropriate sequences from S. Typhimurium.	OmpR is phosphorylated by its cognate histidine kinase by other cellular phosphate donors. ompR genes constitute bicistronic ompB operon. native E. coli ompR are replaced by corresponding ompR/envZ genes from S. Typhimurium. ompR mutant background is with high. OmpR is important for early transcription of ssrA inside mac-rophages. candidate OmpR binding sites is in their 5 ′ UTR determined by ChIP-seq. OmpR DNA binding domain interacts with DNA.
omps	OMPs play role in bacterial adaptation to environmental conditions.	OMPs are important virulence factors.
muth	\N	mismatch repair endonuclease MutH is For instance active only on hemimethylated GATC sites.
dksa	DksA regulates gene transcription. DksA inhibits ﬂagellar expression. DksA have independent roles in NO defense. DksA regulate activity of extracytoplasmic stress factor sigmaE in Escherichia coli by direct. DksA activates PthrABC promoters critical for amino acid synthesis. DksA affects ppGpp induction of RpoS at translational level. RNA polymerase regulatory protein DksA controls stringent response of eubacteria. RNA polymerase regulatory protein DksA plays role in expression of antioxidant defenses of Salmonella. RNA polymerase binding protein DksA contributes to antinitrosative defenses of enteric pathogen S. enterica serovar Typhimurium. DksA contribute to antinitrosative defenses of Salmonella.	DksA zinc ﬁnger is critical. dksA mutant Salmonella strains are susceptible to ROS generated by NADPH phagocyte oxidase hypersusceptible to nitrogen oxides generated by iNOS expressed at later times in infection. DksA metalloprotein contains C-terminal zinc ﬁnger coordinated by four cysteine residues. dksA variants is with serine substitution at position 114 117 135. DksA is important for growth of intracellular pathogen in presence of NO congeners generated by iNOS during innate response of murine macrophages. dksA result is in auxotrophies for iso-leucine.
yibd	yibD encodes putative glycosyltransferase.	yibD ATCC 14028s is with MudJ insertion in dgoA ATCC.
ompd	OmpD play role in ceftriaxone resistance of S. enterica serovar Typhimurium. OmpD mediates influx of H2O2. ompD contributes to polymyxin B resistance. ompD gene encodes porin similar in primary amino acid sequence to major porins OmpC. ompD are important for resistance to cathelicidin antimicrobial peptide.	OmpD is important for resistance. OmpD interacts with periplasmic protein YdeI. outer membrane protein OmpD is in periplasmic compartment. OmpD is present in outer membrane in signiﬁcantly lower abundance at lower pH. in response to low pH. gene Primer GCAACCGTACTGAAAGCCAGGG GCCAAAGAAGTCAGTGTTACGGT TTTCCTGCAGGGCGATCCTTATCA CTGCCGTAGAACGGAAGTTGCATA AAACGTGCCGTTGCGGAACTTATC ATTTCTTTGTTCGTCCGCTGCGTG TAACCGCAGCAATTGACGTTACCC TCTACAAGACTCAAGCCTGCCAGT ompD ompD-F ompD-R vacJ vacJ-F vacJ-R psd-F psd-R 16S RNA-F 16S RNA-R psd 16S RNA are underlined. porin OmpD is with putative inner membrane efﬂux pump. ompD gene is necessary for resistance to toxic compound methyl viologen.
ompf	ompF encoding outer membrane porin protein. ompF genes have Besides proU have previously shown. ompF genes encode outer membrane porin proteins. porin ompF contribute to polymyxin B resistance.	OmpF expression is in ﬂuoroquinolone-resistant Salmo-nella. OmpF is less abundant. OmpF porins are reciprocally regulated in response to proportion of OmpR in phosphorylated state.
ycep	YceP regulate Escherichia coli K-12 bioﬁlm formation.	\N
ompa	OmpA is involved in also Salmonella Typhimurium.	ompA deletion mutant is in S. Typhi-murium SL1344. OmpA is also in Salmonella Typhimurium involved in biofilm formation as ompA deletion mutant. ompA is with pSV-122. ompA levels are in double RNase III MicA mutant reduced in comparison with RNase III single mutant.
ompb	\N	S. typhi ompB operon is in S. typhi cosmid bank. native E. coli ompB locus is retained. ompB loci are composed.
ompc	ompC have only large transient responses. OmpC is involved in invasion of epithelial cells by Shigella flexneri.	osmoregulated ompC is in Escherichia coli. ompC expression is differentially affected by osmolarity in E. coli. S. enterica serovar Typhimurium ompC ompF double mutants are attenuated.
stm3216	\N	STM3216 are activated by Dam methylation.
fadr	FadR activates expression of fatty acid biosynthesis. FadR represses expression of fatty acid degradation.	FadR activity is also inhibited.
uvry	UvrY regulates csrB. UvrY positively regulates csrB. UvrY activate csrB.	uvrY is in Escherichia coli. uvrY are encoded upstream of uvrC.
narl	narL gene product represses trimethylamine N-oxide reductase operons. narL gene product activates nitrate reductase operon.	well-characterized NarL paradigm is in E. coli.
tsf	tsf encoding elongation factor EF-Tsf.	\N
poxb	poxB encode trehalose-6-phosphate synthase.	\N
emrr	EmrR regulate set of genes involved in multiple antibiotic resistance in E. coli.	EmrR is negative regulato.
pgtp	\N	pgtP is in pSJ18. pgtP gene is encoded. pgtP gene belongs to group of genes with low codon bias.
pura	\N	purA mutants are Incidentally known.
fadb	fadB encodes enzyme required for b-oxida-tion of LCFA.	\N
vrgs	\N	VrgS is in S. Typhimurium.
trxa	trxA mutant induce expression of SseJ protein. TrxA contributes to functionality of SPI2 T3SS acting as secreted SPI2 effector. TrxA contribute to intracellular ﬁtness of S. serovar Typhimurium. TrxA act as convergent contributors to bacterial intracellular replication. TrxA is required for functionality of SPI2 acting as SPI2-secreted effector protein.	trxA mutant phenotype is in S. serovar Typhi-murium. TrxA is under in conditions in cell culture infections required for functionality of SPI2 acting as SPI2-secreted effector protein. S. serovar Typhimurium trxA mutant strain complementation is with pFA8. trxA mutants are attenuated.
apee	apeE play role in use of phospholipids as phosphate sources. apeE gene encodes outer membrane esterase.	apeE is member of phoBR regulon. apeE is previously uncharacterized member.
fadd	fadD encodes protein required for import of long-chain fatty acids for activation of LCFA with CoA. fadD have roles. FadD regulate hilA expression. FadD is required for uptake of long-chain fatty acids. FadD affect hilA expression.	FadD is responsible for environmental regulation of hilA expression. FadD is responsible for environmental regulation of hilA expression. fadD mutant is with primer pair ﬁmW_xho_5.
ssea	SseA acts as chaperone for SseB component of Salmonella pathogenicity island 2 translocon. SseA is required for translocation of Salmonella pathogenicity island-2 effectors into host cells.	sseA is in ssaE CDS. SseA is required.
tetr	TetR regulates PLtetO-1 promoter. TetR represses multicopy Ptet promoters. Tetr determine percent cotransfer of proU. tetR gene regulate expression levels from PLTetO-1 promoter.	F lacIq lacZ M15 Tn10 Tetr is in MC1061. TnlO dell6 dell 7 Tetr element is referred. repA Tetr Ampr Tetr iolR is with putative promoter region cloned into pBR322 for complem iolE.
tsr	\N	plasmid-encoded TSR activity is in strain EB474. tsr are responsible.
ntra	NtrA is required for transcription initiation. ntrA gene products act as positive activators of transcription of several unlinked nitrogencontrolled genes.	chromosomal ntrA mutation is in such strains. NtrA is required for transcription initiation at fdhF promoter.
ntrc	ntrC product mediates repression of glnA transcription under conditions of nitrogen excess in absence of ntrA gene product. ntrC protein binds to specific nucleotide sequence within dhuA.	homologous ntrC protein-binding sites is in other nitrogenregulated promoters. E. coli ntrC protein is dimer.
nadb	\N	biosynthesis nadB are transcriptionally repressed.
nada	nadA genes have have cloned into multiple-cloning site of plasmid pUC9. NadA function is required for expression of pnuC gene.	nadA location is in single operon. S. typhimurium nadA is In contrast 1,095-bp ORF coding for 40,759-Da protein. nadA genes are negatively regulated.
ftsk	\N	FtsK functions is in cell division. FtsK is multifunctional protein.
ftsh	FtsH plays role in MgtC degradation. FtsH protease controls FeoB levels. FtsH protease is involved in MgtC negative regulation mediated by MgtR.	ftsH deletion is in strain expressing from plasmid-linked lac promoter. FtsH is only membrane-bound AAA þ protease in E. coli. Escherichia coli FtsH protein is member of protein family of putative ATPases involved in membrane functions.
adra	GGDEF domain protein AdrA promotes bioﬁlm formation.	AdrA is diguanylate.
srgb	srgB encodes rck resistance to complement killing.	\N
srgc	srgC encodes putative araC type transcriptional regulator.	\N
srga	srgA plays role in Pef assembly.	SrgA is also required for folding of SpiA. dsbA srgA double mutants are Indeed mucoid.
nadr	35S-labelled NadR determine number of NadR mole-cules present in protein-DNA complex. NadR regulate de biosynthesis of NAD. nadR encode bifunctional protein. wild-type NadR binding to operator DNA. NadR acts as repressor. NadR binds to inverted repeats. NadR bind appropriate operator DNA sequences. NadR repressor-effector complex bind to its recognition element. NadR represses three genes involved in biosynthesis of NAD.	NadR is also important in transport of nicotinamide mononucleotide as exogenous precursor of NAD. nadr mutations are located. NadR interactions is with DNA target sequences. nadR locus is in Esche-richia coli. NadR interacts with PnuC.
wcaf	\N	wcaF genes are part of wca cluster for colanic acid synthesis.
ahpf	\N	ahpF are predicted.
lsrk	\N	lsrK loci is in wild-type strains. A Figure S4 LsrK is required.
rbsb	\N	RbsB is known. Demuth DR. Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans ribose binding protein RbsB interacts with cognate autoinducer 2 signals.
trai	\N	TraI is responsible. TraI is responsible for production of conjugation factor.
pgte	\N	PgtE belongs to family. PgtE is posttranscriptionally regulated component. pgtE is with inserted Kanr cassette replacing. PgtE is part of resistance to innate immunity regulated by PhoP/PhoQ.
pagc	\N	pagC is in Salmonella. pagC expression is similar. pagC are divergently transcribed.
traj	\N	traJ transcription is in Dam. traJ gene is Hence unlike ﬁnP repressed by H-NS.
spy	\N	metal-induced spy gene expression is in Escherichia coli. spy is member of BaeSR regulon. spy is member of BaeSR regulon like mdtABC.
trat	TraT product have have associated with serum sensitivity.	\N
sseg	\N	sseG is In contrast to other fusions distal gene of larger operon controlled by PsseA.
sapd	SapD have high degree of sequence similarity with several members of ATP binding cassette family of transporters.	SapD are 40 % identical % SapF to Salmonella OppD.
mode	mode have effect.	peculiar mode is biologically important property. mode is in S. typhimurium.
trar	\N	TraR is activator required for Ti plasmid-mediated conjugation.
gcva	\N	GcvA binding site is in gcvA control region.
gcvb	GcvB regulates expression of multiple ABC transporters of amino acids. gcvB gene encodes small untranslated RNA involved in expression of dipeptide transport systems in Escherichia coli.	GcvB is novel.
purl	\N	purL is in Yersinia.
metr	MetR protein activate metE gene expression. metR gene product regulates its own synthesis. E. coli MetR have have reported. MetR affect proteinprotein interaction. MetR regulate their own genes. MetR is required for activation of metF-lacZ only under MetJ-mediated repressing conditions. MetR gene product activates unpublished data. MetR protein mediates inhibitory effect of homocysteine on metA-lacZ expression. metR gene product affects third gene in folate branch of pathway. MetR protein is involved in metF regulation. metR gene encodes polypeptide. MetR binds to promoter of metH located. S. typhimu-rium MetR protein bind to CM-52 column in next step at pH 6.4. MetR protein promotes binding in extract preparation. MetR protein positively regulates metH expression.	metR gene is negatively regulated by its own gene product in conjunction with homocysteine. metR lysogen 244XRlac are functionally metE mutants. bound unbound DISCUSSION MetR protein belongs to lysR family of DNA binding proteins. MetR Activator-Binding Site is in metE metR Control Region of Salmonella typhimurium MARK L. URBANOWSKI.
pocr	PocR protein acts as positive regulatory protein. PocR protein binds to three consecutive major grooves of binding site DNA. PocR activate transcription of cob/pdu. pocR gene have one transcriptional start site. pocR protein activates transcription of its own gene.	pocR gene is expressed in pduF fusion strains. 14028 pocR counts is in comparison with those of strain 14028. pocR gene is Thus in pduF fusion strains expressed only by its own promoter. PocR protein is with bound propanediol. PocR protein are represented by shaded circles respectively.
nrdd	\N	NrdD is anaerobic ribonucleotide reductase.
pdux	\N	pBAD18s bla pPDU15 pduX is in pBAD30 bla pPDU16 pduW pduX.
pduw	pduW encoding propionate kinase. pduW encodes protein with propionate kinase enzyme activity.	pBAD30 bla pPDU16 pduW pduX is in pBAD30 bla pTDC1 tdcD. pduW is required for growth of S. enterica serovar Typhimurium on 1,2-PDL. PduW activity is important for synthesis of propionyl coenzyme A during growth on 1,2-PDL.
rbfa	\N	RbfA is cold-shock.
uhpabc	\N	3.7-kb S. typhimurium uhpABC is in pKS E. coli uhp region.
pduq	\N	pBAD18s bla pPDU4 pduQ is in pBAD18s bla pPDU15 pduX.
pdup	pduP encoding putative aldehyde oxidoreductase.	pBA18s bla pPDU3 pduP is in pBAD18s bla pPDU4 pduQ. pduP is Here replaced.
ytfe	ytfE have role.	Escherichia coli YtfE is di-iron protein.
metc	\N	metJ metB metC lysogen 720XRlac are defective in synthesis of homocysteine.
nrdr	NrdR regulates transcription of class Ia in S. Typhimurium LT2. NrdR acts as repressor of three ribonucleotide reductases in S. Typhimurium LT2. NrdR regulate nrd expression.	black nrdR mutant strain is in dark grey. NrdR is transcriptional. NrdR boxes are palindromic sequences.
meta	metA genes encode enzymes.	metA is in metC nonfolate branch of pathway. metA is also regulated posttranscriptionally.
metf	metF gene product is involved in biosynthesis of 5-methyltetrahy-drofolate from 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate.	metF mutation is in lysogen 723AElac. metF gene product is directly required for metR gene expression. metJ metB metC metF lysogen 723XRlac are defective.
trg	Null trg mutations have have previously shown.	trg are responsible for flagellar function. Putative transcriptional unit trg srfABC i36 trg srfB is with repeats.
mete	metE gene encodes last enzyme in methionine biosynthetic pathway. high MetE levels have effect similar to that of B12 supplementation.	metE control region is in plasmid pGS105. metE gene is regulated in trans by metJ gene products by metR gene product. metE mRNA leader sequence contains region of extensive dyad symmetry with its center between positions. metE genes are negatively regulated by metJ gene product with S-adeno-sylmethionine as corepressor.
metj	metJ repressor binding site plays role in autoregulation of metJ gene. purified metJ repressor protein bind to proposed operator region shared by genes. metJ repressor regulates metR gene expression. metJ gene product is involved in control of metJ gene itself. MetJ protein regulate metR gene expression.	metJ metB mutant b-Galactosidase activity is in medium containingb. proposed metJ termination region is also shown. metJ metB metC lysogen 720XRlac are defective in synthesis of homocysteine. possible metJ operator region is with partial homology to tandemly repeating palindrome 5.
pduf	\N	pduF gene is expressed. cob-pdu pocR pduF Transcribed regions are indicated.
meth	metH can can distinguished from metE. metH gene product is involved in repression of metE.	metH is in S. typhimurium. metH gene product is In addition involved in repression of metE.
pdud	\N	pduD subunit are responsible.
ytfk	\N	ytfK upstream region pAMD-BA-lacZ is with STM14_1613 upstream region pAMD-BA-lacZ.
ytfj	\N	ytfJ upstream region pAMD-BA-lacZ is with STM14_5291 upstream region pAMD-BA-lacZ.
cobt	cobT gene encodes NaMN.	\N
cobu	included cobU gene encode protein with adenosyltransferase activity.	\N
hcp	hcp hcr genes have Like ytfE have also shown.	hcp ortholog is in SPI-6 T6SS of S. Typhi. Hcp protein expression is enhanced. Hcp contains two clusters. Hcp proteins are most highly expressed.
waag	\N	waaG expression is regulated.
yrff	\N	yrfF is in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium LT2 complete sequence. yrfF ORFs are located.
rep	\N	two REP sequences is in inverted orientation. work Plasmids pKD3 rep r r R6K Ap FRT Cm FRT 20 pCMPG5802 Fragment is with SpeI site.
ssar	\N	ssaR mutant is with deletion in ssaR encoding.
ssau	ssaU are important for SPI1 gene expression.	ssaU are important.
ssat	ssaT are important for SPI1 gene expression.	ssaT is in pACYC184 Cmr. ssaT is penultimate gene of ssaK-U operon. SsaT are homologs of YscT of virulence plasmid-encoded type III secretion system of Yersinia spp.
hlye	HlyE affects bacterial growth within human macrophages. HlyE contributes to cytotoxicity in epithelial cells.	hlyE expression is in S. Typhi. HlyE is pore-forming toxin. hlyE promoter contains observation recently confirmed by Faucher et.
ssav	SsaV contribute to intracellular ﬁtness of S. serovar Typhimurium. SsaV is required for secretion of SPI-2 effectors.	SsaV is essential component. ssaV is with chloramphenicol resistance gene.
kdsa	KdsA is involved in synthesis of 3-deoxy-D-manno-octulosonic acid.	KdsA is involved.
trpr	trpR gene have 4.	DNA methylation inﬂuences trpR promoter activity is in Escherichia coli.
coba	CobA protein plays role in B12 transport. cobA function is required for de cobalamin biosynthesis of exogenous corrinoids in Salmonella typhi-murium.	cobA function is required.
cobb	CobB plays role in catab-olism of propionate. CobB proteins affect prpBCDE operon expression. cobB function is required for catabolism of propionate in Salmonella typhimurium LT2.	CobB is required for prpBCDE transcription in response to propionate in cells grown in minimal mediuma supplemented with. CobB are needed for transcription of prpBCDE operon.
invh	\N	InvH contains two cysteine residues. Salmonella typhimurium InvH protein is outer membrane lipoprotein required for proper localization of InvG. invH primer is with EcoRI linker.
invg	invG encodes component of SPI1 TTS apparatus.	InvG is encoded.
ilvih	\N	ilvIH are known.
hilc	HilC control their own transcription. HilC regulates hilD expression. HilC plays role in co-ordinating expression of SPI-1 genes. HilC proteins activate silent downstream promoter. HilC have have implicated in de-repressing hilA expression. HilC affect hilA expression. HilC regulate expression of other genes independent of their effects on hilA expression. hilC is required for EnvZ/OmpR regulation of hilA expression. HilC activates hilA. hilC encode known regulators of Salmonella virulence. HilC act as ampliﬁers of activating signals. HilC induce expression of inv/spa operon independent of HilA. HilC mediates only action of EnvZ/OmpR. HilC binds to at least three sites in hilC promoter. HilC bind same DNA sites upstream of hilD. HilC bind to multiple sites in hilC promoter besides C2 region. HilC contribute to SPI1 gene expression. hilC gene has role in invasion.	hilC expression is in hilD mutant even further repressed by low-osmolarity conditions. HilC constitute feed. HilC are homologues of HilD with 62 % respectively in their DNA-binding domains. HilC is expressed in absence of HilD. hilC regulatory genes is in SPI-1 pathogenicity island.
invc	\N	ATPase InvC is in Salmonella.
cobi	\N	CobI induction is in presence of oxygen. CobI transcription is Furthermore strongly repressed. CobI constitute single operon regulated. CobI mutants are defective.
inva	invA encodes structural component of T3SS. InvA is required for its formation.	invA gene is in SPI-1. invA is proximal gene. invA Km strain contains Km resistance cassette inserted in invA ORF.
gor	\N	Gor are required for turnover of oxidized glutathione.
recj	\N	recB recJ mutants are deﬁcient.
xtha	xthA encode hydroperoxidase II catalase.	\N
stm2911	\N	STM2911 is in SPI-1.
oxys	novel oxyS RNA regulates expression of sigma s subunit of Escherichia coli RNA polymerase. OxyS regulatory RNA represses rpoS translation.	oxyS control is in response to oxidative stress. OxyS is upregulated.
recb	\N	recB suppressor mutations is in strain LT2. recB recJ mutants are deﬁcient.
argr	ArgR binds to DNA fragment. ArgR molecules bind to region between NtrC sites. functional ArgR is essential for cAMP-CRP-dependent induction of ast operon under carbon starvation. Six putative ArgR boxes can can also deduced albeit with varying degrees of homology to consensus sequence.	ArgR are required for such induction. ArgR regulatory protein is in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. ntrB Con argR mutant derivative is when grown with arginine as sole nitrogen source. ArgR interacts with 280-bp fragment.
reca	\N	recA gene is in strains of Escherichia coli K-12. transforming recA Escherichia coli strain is with beta-galac-tosidase selection.
argt	\N	argT is only 240 bases upstream from histidine transport operon. argT are independently regulated by nitrogen availability.
argu	\N	E. coli argU gene is Interestingly identical. E. coli argU are adjacent.
rece	\N	recE activation is sharply reduced.
rama	RamA activate target gene expression. transcriptional activator RamA regulates production of multidrug resistance efﬂux AcrAB. ramA activates MDR cascade. ramA affects expression of acrB. RamA plays role in virulence regulation. RamA affect virulence. RamA bind to upstream promoter region of acrAB. RamA represses expression of genes contributing to pathogenicity. ramA contribute to ﬂuoroquinolone resistance in serovar Typhimurium. RamA has role in positive regulation of AcrAB.	ramA expression is In Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium negatively regulated at local level by RamR. RamA are associated with decreased susceptibility to tigecycline in Enterobacter cloacae. RamA overexpression is in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium.
stm3031	STM3031 play role in ceftriaxone resistance. Outer membrane protein STM3031 plays role in ceftriaxone resistance of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium.	\N
asd	\N	Asd Derivative is with lrp expressed from Ptrc containing.
cadc	CadC regulates transcription of ompC. S. enterica serovar Typhimurium CadC plays role in global regulation during acid adaptation. cadC mutants have Similarly have isolated. CadC activates pH-dependent expression of Vibrio vulniﬁcus cadBA operon at distance. CadC regulate two former genes. S. enterica serovar Typhi-murium CadC affects global translation. Membrane-bound CadC act as transcriptional activator of cadBA operon. CadC acts as mild repressor of ompR transcription. CadC positively regulates transcription of ompC.	CadC protein is for example activated by exog-enous lysine besides acid pH. its close homologue CadC are members. CadC derivative is with N-terminal HA tag. acid stress-induced CadC degradation is in cadC strain harboring. DISCUSSION CadC is regulator of acid adaptation in S. enterica serovar Typhimurium.
rect	\N	recT ortholog is in distal portion of Gifsy-1.
argg	\N	divergent argG is in Escherichia coli K-12.
metb	\N	metJ metB mutant b-Galactosidase activity is in medium containingb. metB mRNA is more efficiently translated. metJ metB metC lysogen 720XRlac are defective in synthesis of homocysteine.
fhucdb	FhuCDB mediates transport of ferrioxamine.	\N
dcub	\N	dcuB is located immediately upstream of fumB.
cpxr	CpxR binding sites have weight score. CpxR activates expression of cell wall-degrading proteins. CpxR act as modulator of other extracytoplasmic response proteins as stand-alone regulator.	conserved CpxR binding site is in rdo promoter. CpxR is Therefore likely.
yhbu	\N	32 yhbU 29 Putative protease 32 STM4519 41b Putative NAD-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase is in LB medium between high-iron conditions 1.
btuf	BtuF acts as periplasmic vitamin B12.	\N
sodb	\N	sodB regulation is in Salmonella. sodB mutant strain is Interestingly sensitive. SodB are cytosolic superoxide dismutases of S. Typhimurium.
sodc	\N	E. coli sodC is member of regulon. sodC transcription is induced by oxidative stress under normal growth. sodC mutants are less virulent.
cpxa	Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium CpxA sensor activate AraC-like transcription factor. WT CpxA gene affects activity of mutant CpxA protein. cpxA have excess CpxR-P.	Gmr pRDH10 cpxA cpxRA is in pWSK29 lacZ reporter plasmid cpxRA promoter. WT CpxA protein is responsive.
oppa	Gene oppA encodes periplasmic protein with molecular weight of 52,000 12.	oppA protein is in periplasm. oppA are constitutively expressed under growth conditions.
stm1133	\N	STM1133 is final gene.
acrab	AcrAB efﬂux pump plays role in antibiotic resistance phenotype of Escherichia coli multiple-anti-biotic-resistance.	Nishino K. AcrAB multidrug efﬂux pump regulation is in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium. acrAB expression is At more global level modulated by stress conditions by global regulators like MarA. acrAB locus is part of mar sox. AcrAB are associated with decreased susceptibility to tigecycline in Enterobacter cloacae.
misl	misL gene encodes autotransporter protein of sero-type Typhimurium. MisL C-terminal translocator domain can can used. intact misL gene is required for intestinal colonization in chicks inoculated orally with serotype Typhimurium.	tet-racycline-inducible misL expression is in LB broth. MisL is extracellular matrix adhesin involved in intestinal colonization.
prma	\N	upstream prmA is in bacteria. prmA stop codon is In S. Typhimurium 628 bp upstream.
hybb	\N	hybB is located.
mvim	\N	mviM gene is closely linked.
sope	SopE activate different sets of RhoGTPases of host cell. SopE promotes bacterial entry. SopE act as G-nucleotide exchange factors.	sopE SopE is in strain SL1344. SopE is translocated into target eukaryotic cell via sip-dependent mechanism. SopE are Among effectors on pathogen side on host side required for coordinated invasion.
dini	\N	dinI homologue is in Gifsy-2 prophage. dinI homologue is where first gene of LexA-regulated operon.
pgi	oxrC pgi gene is involved in generation of inducing signal associated primarily with fermentative activities.	pgi structural gene is located. pgi are Thus almost certainly alleles.
cada	cadA gene plays role in acid tolerance.	cadA transcriptional induction is in UK1 wild-type strain. cadA gene is induced.
cadb	\N	cadB gene is component.
exbb	ExbB is involved in transport of several compounds across membrane including ferric siderophores.	ExbB is involved.
pslt046	\N	PSLT046 is hereafter referred to.
pslt047	\N	PSLT047 is with interaction at their respective 39 ends.
acrf	\N	AcrF efﬂux pump is homologous to AcrB in S. enterica with 81.4 % amino acid identity. AcrF efﬂux pump is highly homologous. AcrF are 80 % identical in S. enterica with 78 % identity over periplasmic loop regions.
ihf	FIG 8 IHF regulates expression of csrB. predicted IHF have weight score. global regulatory protein IHF is required for expression of prpBCDE operon. IHF controls expression of csrB. IHF protein are important for transcription of prpBCDE operon. DNA-bending protein IHF binding to site located between activator binding sequence. IHF is essential for activity of s54-promoter of glmY. IHF binds to regulatory region of csrB. IHF bind to promoter fragments of E. coli glmY. IHF can can found among enteric bacteria including various types of purple bacteria.	IHF is required at multiple steps during induction of cob/pdu transcription in response to 1,2-PDL. IHF protein are important. IHF is with Fnr. IHF is important for activities of s54-promoters. ihf site sequence is in E. coli ﬁs P region.
stm1798	STM1798 encoding PilZ domain containing.	\N
ydik	\N	RprA E. coli ydiK ydiL RybB E. coli SL0845 SL0846 72 75 5 109 are shown.
ydil	\N	RprA E. coli ydiK ydiL RybB E. coli SL0845 SL0846 72 75 5 109 are shown.
pspf	\N	pspF are deletions of chloramphenicol cassette.
pspa	\N	pspA are involved.
flgn	type III secretion chaperone FlgN regulates ﬂagellar assembly. secretion chaperone FlgN bind class 3 ﬂgM transcript. ﬂagellar FlgN chaperone bind to secretion apparatus. FlgN regulate translation of class 3-speciﬁc anti-sigma factor gene ﬂgM. FlgN proteins have have reported.	FlgN Protein Hook Completion is key checkpoint in ﬂagellar development.
glya	glyA genes encode enzymes.	\N
flgm	flgM gene product regulates flagellin-specific sigma factor. FlgM protein inhibits ﬂagellum-speciﬁc transcription factor s28. labeled FlgM determine loss of Flk results in increase in FlgM turnover in P-and L-ring mutant strains. FlgM affect s28 activity. FlgM protein mediates its negative regulation of flagellin genes presumably of class 3 operons interacting with U25. FlgM act as anti-sigma factor. FlgM binding to amino-terminal conserved s regions. FlgM acts as anti-sigma factor. flgM encodes diffusible protein product. flgM gene is essential for complementation. FlgM protein binds to s28. FlgM bind numbers. Cytoplasmic FlgM can can targeted to ﬂagellar secretion channel through amino acid secretion signals.	FlgM protein is Following assembly of hook-basal body complex secreted by ﬂagellum-speciﬁc export apparatus with transcriptional regulation. His FlgM proteins are are expressed from arabinose-inducible P promoter from BAD S. typhi-murium chromosome. FlgM is necessary for virulence of S. typhimurium in mouse model of typhoid fever. Anti-s28 Holoenzyme Factor 28 FlgM interacts with s holoenzyme. FlgM-depletion backgrounda flgM Activity is with TnlO insertion aalllleelle None flhD fliA flgB flhB lac fusion Class 1 flhD-lac fAgM. flgM is in correct orientation for transcription from inducible T7 promoter. flgM gene product is regulator of flagellin transcription.
tbpa	\N	tbpA gene product is upregulated as result of tigecycline.
ugtl	UgtL is required for SifB function.	UgtL is required.
moar	MoaR regulates physiological link to monoamine oxidation.	\N
ydiv	YdiV regulates ﬂagellar master regulatory proteins. YdiV inhibits binding of FlhD4C2 to class 2 promoter. YdiV regulate class 2 expression. YdiV activates its own expression. YdiV controls tuning ﬂagellar gene transcription in reponse to environmental signals. YdiV is involved in ﬂiZ-mediated regulation of ﬂagellar regulon. YdiV binding to class 2 promoter. EAL domain protein YdiV acts as anti-FlhD4C2 factor responsible for nutritional control of ﬂagellar regulon in Salmo-nella enterica serovar Typhimurium. YdiV act as mediator of nutritional level of environment in expression of ﬂagellar regulon. expressed YdiV protein binds to FlhD4C2 complex. Puriﬁed YdiV protein bind to FlhD4C2. YdiV represses ﬂagellar genes.	YdiV is novel anti-FlhD4C2 factor responsible for nutritional control of ﬂagellar regulon. EA L Domain Protein YdiV Acts are divided. YdiV protein contains EAL domain. ydiV gene is responsible for reduction of class 2 expression under low-nutrient conditions. YdiV protein is with E-to-A substitution in EAL domain. two possible ydiV promoters is in intergenic region between genes. YdiV interacts with FlhD.
soxr	SoxR activate transcription of soxS gene. Constitutive soxR mutations contribute to multiple-antibiotic resistance in clinical Escherichia coli isolates. soxR encode components.	SoxR protein is expressed constitutively. SoxR protein is homologous to MerR family of transcriptional activators.
parc	parC genes encoding A subunits of topoisomerase IV.	\N
ogt	\N	ogt gene belongs to RpoS regulon. ogt gene expression is in Salmonella. ogt gene expression is regulated by RpoS in stationary phase of growth in rich medium.
rck	Rck promotes adherence to epithelial cells.	rck operon is in particular. Salmonella typhimurium virulence plasmid complement resistance gene rck is homologous. rck operon are regulated by SdiA in AHL-de-pendent manner. rck is member of pefI-srgDAB-rck-srgC operon. Salmonella typhimurium virulence plasmid complement resistance gene rck is homologous to family of virulence-related outer membrane protein genes including pagC.
tfa	\N	0.1 % TFA is in water.
nahr	\N	NahR is in Citrobacter freundii.
rdoa	RdoA affects ﬂagellin phase variation. RdoA is involved in ﬂagellar phase variation under NlpE-overproducing conditions.	rdoA null strain is in RdoA/NlpE overexpression-dependent manner. Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium rdoA is regulated. RdoA is part of signaling pathway. rdoA promoters are induced at different points in growth phase. rdoA null strain is with pBAD18.
s32	\N	s32 mutant is with single amino acid change in highly conserved region 2.2.
dnaa	replication initiator DnaA binds to chromosome replication origin. DnaA protein affects frequency of initiation. DnaA proteins bind to nrd promoter region. DnaA protein is involved in assembly of initiation complex.	dnaA is in dnaA region of Escherichia coli chromosome. DnaA protein is essential factor in initiation of DNA replication at oriC in Escherichia coli. dnaA promoters are shown above E. coli sequence. dnaA complex is with E. coli chromosomal replication origin. DnaA protein interacts with several other proteins.
stm0084	STM0084 encodes putative arylsulfatase.	STM0084 is annotated.
dnac	\N	DnaC helicase loader is dual ATP/ADP switch protein.
cdar	\N	cdaR gene is 2.2-fold upregulated.
iica	\N	iicA are separated by 6 kb of DNA on chromosome.
chey	\N	CheY is also acetylated.
nifu	nifU contribute to desiccation tolerance.	nifU deletion is in dehydrated cells.
glrr	GlrR regulate glmZ genes of S. typhimurium. GlrR binds to three activator binding sites present upstream. puriﬁed GlrR protein bind to promoters. GlrR activates s54-promoter.	GlrR is in Y. pseudotuberculosis. Z197 Phosphorylated GlrR is active. GlrR binding sites are likewise conserved. GlrR is with its homologs from S. typhimurium.
trbb	TrbB acts as sort of chaperone. trbB encodes protein belonging to large family.	trbB transcript is strongly repressed. trbB are separate transcriptional units.
sert	\N	serT mutant is defective.
sigma70	\N	Sigma70 promoters is in Escherichia coli.
viaa	\N	viaA mutations is in S. typhi. ViaA is with 32.
orgb	OrgB is essential for Salmonella invasion into epithelial cells. orgB gene is required for complementation of polar serovar Typhimurium prgH.	B Comparative orgB expression is in presence of SM mutations. orgB gene is required. orgB are cotranscribed with prg genes. OrgB interacts with 3.
orgc	orgC gene located encodes putative protein of 161 amino acids. orgC sequence can can found at bp 1510 1995 on Stm contig 1455 at Washington Universit serovar Typhimurium sequencing database.	OrgC is secreted into extracellular milieu by SPI-1 translocon.
orga	orgA gene encode protein of 412 amino acids.	steady-state orgA speciﬁc mRNA levels is in Salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium. orgA is In addition similar to mxiK gene in Shigella. orgA are under PhoP-activating conditions up-regulated by PhoP.
ydiu	YdiU have positive effect.	YdiU is responsible. YdiU is responsible for nutritional control of class 2 operons in Salmonella.
gatc	GATC mutations affect expression. regulatory GATC sites can can located in promoter in upstream regulatory regions in operator.	differential GATC methylation patterns is in gtrP22 ON cells. GATC site is When embedded within protein-binding sequence. appropriate GATC sites are only when methylated.
iron	iron homeostasis regulates hilA. iron chelation property have role. iron binding property play role in treatment of cancer. putative iron transport system SitABCD is required for full virulence of Salmonella typhimurium. iron regulate expression of Pseudomonas aeruginosa tol-oprL gene cluster. Iron availability controls synthesis. Iron is involved in electron transport in cell. iron is essential for virulence. Iron represses feoB transcription at acidic pH.. iron limitation promotes expression. excess intracellular iron can can detrimental to cell.	iron content is by contrast typically far lower in range of few hundred micromolar. Salmonella typhi iron uptake mutants are attenuated. ferrous iron is with oxygen. Fur-mediated iron regulation is in bidirectional fepA-fes control region of Escherichia coli enterobactin gene system.
ubib	\N	ubiB is in S. Typhimurium.
ratb	\N	ratB genes are also transcribed in same direction as their respective rightward genes.
aceba	\N	aceBA operon is transcribed. aceBA mutations is with nearby loci. aceBA genes are cotransducible with metA at 90 min on E. coli genetic map.
galr	\N	galR mutation is in E. coli background.
prgi	\N	PrgI is main subunit.
gale	galE mutants can can infected by E. coli-spe-ciﬁc phage P1.	galE end is located adjacent to BamHI site of cloning vector. Salmonella galE mutants are When grown in presence of high concentrations of galactose.
yjdb	\N	yjdB putative antiporter is in adi gene cluster. yjdB promoter pFPV25 is with sseJ promoter pCMPG5611.
yjde	\N	YjdE is arginine.
adhe	\N	AdhE is multifunctional enzyme.
rpra	RprA binds to 5. RprA represses csgD translation. UTR.Rv CTCGAGCAGATCTTCTTCAGAAATAAGTTTTTGTTCCGAGATATCTTCCAGAGAACG CTCGAGTGCATTGTTTTAATGGATATG GGATCCAACTTCATTGGCATGCAGGTT AAGACGTGACACACTTCGTTT CAGATCTTCTTCAGAAATAAGTTTTTGTTC GCAGGATAATTTAAGCCGCA TAATCCGCTGACCACGTGTTC AGTTAAAAGTATTTTCGTAAATA CCGGCTAGCGTGACCATGAATACTATGGACTT CAAACGATGCCCGTAAATC TTTAGCGTTCCACTGGTCGA csgA.rt.Fw csgA.rt.Rv csgA CGGTAGTCAACGCTCTGTC GGCCAGAAACGTACCATCGT gyrB.rt.Fw gyrB.rt.Rv gyrB CATCTCATTTCTGTCGCAAAT GACTTGAACAGAATCACACT rprA.Fw rprA.Rv rprANB rprA CACACAGCAATTCGTTGTTTCACTCAGGG 5S RNA CTACGGCGTTTCACTTCTGAGTTC 5SNB RESULTS Deletions have different effects.	small regulatory RNA RprA links is in Esch-erichia coli. RprA synthesis is regulated by RcsC/RcsB phosphorelay system in E. coli. RprA E. coli ydiK ydiL RybB E. coli SL0845 SL0846 72 75 5 109 are shown.
vacb	vacB gene encodes exoribonuclease RNase R. J. Biol.	\N
ssah	ssaH encodes structural gene of type III secretion system.	SsaH is component. ssaH are induced in minimal medium.
galk	\N	ilvC-directed galK expression is in absence of transcription of contiguous ilv Y gene Galacto-kinase sp act. galK mRNA sequence is translated. galK gene sequence contains its own ribosome-binding site. pKO galK vectors are derivatives.
stm4261	\N	annotated STM4261 locus contains at least two genes.
miaa	miaA mutants have have described previously.	miaA mutant 's hypersensitivity is in trans. S. typhi-murium miaA mutant is leucine auxotroph. miaA mutant cells are At 42 °C rapidly depleted of free leucine.
stm4264	STM4264 affects much greater fraction of cellular c-di-GMP than STM1703.	mltE mltC STM4264 triple mutant is with upregulated rdar morphotype.
miab	MiaB enzyme is involved in thiolation reaction.	MiaB is thiotransferase required in ms2i o 6A37 tRNA modiﬁcation. miaB gene is part of monocistronic operon.
mic	MIC assays determine speciﬁc for bile.	Rob-induced resistance phenotypes MIC % Survival is in ACKNOWLEDGMENTS. c MIC is minimal inhibitory concentration of fusidic acid in micrograms required. LTL ciprofloxacin MIC is with single point mutation in GyrA.
selc	\N	Salmonella selC locus contains pathogenicity island.
pnp	\N	pnp mutant is in BALB/c mice. isogenic pnp mutant MC71 are described in Clements et.
dsbc	DsbC affect extracellular enzyme formation in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	DsbC is periplasmic.
yigg	yigG contribute to S. enterica surface attachment. Gene yigG encodes putative inner membrane protein with unknown function.	yigG are Interestingly absent.
asrb	\N	asrB constitute asr operon.
tyrr	wheth-er tyrR control adiA expression.	TyrR is in E. coli. TyrR is 53-kDa. TyrR box 1 sequence similarity is with aroFol.
pnuc	pnuC gene encodes membrane-associated protein. pnuC mutation affect NMN deamidase activity.	pnuC locus residing is in operon with nadA. PnuC transporter activity is modulated by NadR in response to internal pyridine nucleo-tide levels. pnuC mutants are deficient in NMN transport. PnuC protein is with only minor modification.
yigl	YigL is required for response to sugar stress caused.	YigL expression is in same context of RNase E activity as above. yigL RBS is First unlike canonical anti-antisense mechanisms dispensable for activation by SgrS.
asra	\N	asrA constitute asr operon. AsrA is Perhaps analogous.
ssaj	\N	SsaJ is essential component.
rho	Rho play role in gene control. Rho bind RNA polymerase. Rho promotes transcription termination.	Rho involvement is in regulation by trans-encoded Hfq-dependent sRNA. rho mutant effect is Second considerably diminished. temperature-sensitive Salmonella typhimurium rho mutant is with altered Rho-associated po-lycytidylate-dependent adenosine triphosphatase activity. Rho 's RNA substrates are usually rich.
stm1841	STM1841 have 30-fold-higher induction in wild type than in rcsB mutant.	\N
hin	Hin mediates recombination. hin gene is involved in site-specific inversion of promoter segment.	hin genes is in wildtype mutant strains. Hin is limiting factor. Hin is responsible for synthesis of FljB in iacP mutant strain. hin gene is with its promoter region.
ilvg	\N	ilvG mutant is in media. ilvG coding sequence is where disrupted. ilvG mutations are cotransduced.
gyrb	UTR.Rv CTCGAGCAGATCTTCTTCAGAAATAAGTTTTTGTTCCGAGATATCTTCCAGAGAACG CTCGAGTGCATTGTTTTAATGGATATG GGATCCAACTTCATTGGCATGCAGGTT AAGACGTGACACACTTCGTTT CAGATCTTCTTCAGAAATAAGTTTTTGTTC GCAGGATAATTTAAGCCGCA TAATCCGCTGACCACGTGTTC AGTTAAAAGTATTTTCGTAAATA CCGGCTAGCGTGACCATGAATACTATGGACTT CAAACGATGCCCGTAAATC TTTAGCGTTCCACTGGTCGA csgA.rt.Fw csgA.rt.Rv csgA CGGTAGTCAACGCTCTGTC GGCCAGAAACGTACCATCGT gyrB.rt.Fw gyrB.rt.Rv gyrB CATCTCATTTCTGTCGCAAAT GACTTGAACAGAATCACACT rprA.Fw rprA.Rv rprANB rprA CACACAGCAATTCGTTGTTTCACTCAGGG 5S RNA CTACGGCGTTTCACTTCTGAGTTC 5SNB RESULTS Deletions have different effects.	novel gyrB mutation is in ciproﬂoxacin resistance. himA gyrB double mutant is Nonetheless more defective in supercoiling function than with model. gyrB alleles are Finally also his regulatory mutations.
gyra	single gyrA mutation contribute to nalidixic acid resistance. gyrA mutations have additionally have shown.	GyrA results is in altered expression of numerous genes including those important. gyrA is suggested. gyrA is with Known Defects in Supercoiling. well-characterized gyrA are Finally also his regulatory mutations.
doc	Doc mediates cooperative interactions between adjacent sites.	DOC sensitivity is in asmA mutant. one Doc molecule is able. study pRS1553 P1 phd doc P1 phd pRDM032 pRDM034 pXZ006 pXZ024 pXZ029 pXZ030 pXZ032 pXZ033 pXZ034 pXZ035 pXZ036 pXZ037 pXZ062 St103 is with single GTGT ACAC palindrome P1 promoter.
envz-ompr	EnvZ-OmpR activates expression of genes. EnvZ-OmpR regulate three operons.	Inouye M. EnvZ-OmpR interaction is in Escherichia coli. EnvZ-OmpR two-component regulatory system is thought. envZ-ompR are In S. Typhimurium major regulators of virulence.
rfaf	gene rfaF determine heptosyltransferase II.	rfaF gene is in S. typhimurium. rfaF gene is 80 % identical to E. coli rfaF at nucleotide level.
rfae	\N	rfaE is in S. typhimurium.
rfad	rfaD is required for viability of E. coli at high temperature.	rfaD is in E. coli. rfaD is also known. rfaD are homologous to same location as equivalent genes in Escherichia coli K-12.
rfac	\N	RfaC proteins is with 49 % similarity index.
ilvc	ilvC gene encodes remaining enzyme of isoleucine-valine biosynthetic pathway.	S. typhimurium ilvC gene is transcribed in same direction as that of ilvGEDA.
ptsh	\N	cysA gsr ptsI ptsH cysK cysZ dsd is in S. typhimurium.
kdpf	\N	KdpF subunit is part. KdpF subunit is part of K translocating Kdp complex of Escherichia coli.
sapf	SapF have high degree of sequence similarity with several members of ATP binding cassette family of transporters. sapF is required for activity.	sapF is required. SapF are Furthermore similar.
rfah	RfaH regulates rfaGBIJ expression at transcriptional level. RfaH is required for transcription of LPS biosynthetic genes in S. enterica serovar Typhimurium. RfaH affects transcription of genes required for outer membrane composition. RfaH acts as antiterminator. rfaH encodes antitermination factor involved in stabilization of very long transcripts. RfaH positively regulates rfaGBIJ expression at transcriptional level.	RfaH is similarly required for transcription of LPS biosynthetic genes in S. enterica serovar Typhimurium for capsule in E. coli. rfaH mutants are whereby attenuated. Apr rfaH is with its promoter region cloned into pLDR11. rfaH mutant is in two eukaryotic cell lines. RfaH interacts with ops element present in promoter regions of large operons. RfaH is regulator of expression of tra Y-Z operon of F factor.
yaet	YaeT affects assembly of lipid-dependent outer membrane proteins of Esche-richia coli.	\N
sapg	\N	sapG mutation is in kdp1 background.
pefi	PefI regulates production of PefA. PefI controls synthesis of virulence plasmid-encoded ﬁmbriae.	PefI is homolog of PapI in E. coli. pefI are previously unrecognized members of rck operon. PefI is homologous to E. coli ﬁmbrial regulatory proteins.
clpp	ClpP serine protease is essential for intracellular parasitism of Listeria monocytogenes. ClpP is required for sporulation in B. subtilis.	ClpP is proteolytic core of ATP-dependent protease by association with either of two ATPases. ClpP are unrelated proteins in amino acid sequence of proteolysis.
gsha	gshA encodes g-glutamylcysteine synthetase.	gshA mutation is in Strain Relevant genotype. E. coli GshA protein is represented.
rpos	rpoS regulates unidentiﬁed chromosomal gene s involved in colonization of Salmonella in spleens. alternative sigma factor RpoS plays role in Salmonella infection. rpoS regulate bacterial growth within fibroblasts. RpoS is required for transcription of many genes expressed during onset of stationary phase. alternative factor RpoS activates transcription of gene. rpoS gene encoding sS. RpoS controls expression of regulon of genes involved in stress resistance. rpoS induce PBAD. 3rd altered rpoS allele contributes to avirulence of Salmonella typhimurium LT2. rpoS gene encodes alternative primary sigma factor for RNA polymerase. RpoS expression is involved in CsgD downregulation in mltE mltC double mutant. RpoS affect SPI1 expression in Salmonella. RpoS binds to promoter of sraL gene. RpoS represses fis expression. RpoS abundance can can increased in exponential-phase cells. RpoS contribute to multidrug resistance in E. coli. factor RpoS has role in positive in S. typhi-murium.	rpoS gene product is second principal s factor of RNA polymerase in stationary-phase Escherichia coli. rpoS mutants are thus highly attenuated in mice with 50 % lethal dose at least 4 logs higher. rpoS contains lacIq sequences. RpoS is necessary for positive regulation of starvation-survival genes during phosphate in Salmonella typhimurium. monocistronic rpoS transcript is with long untranslated leader region of 566 nucleotides. ectopic RpoS is expressed in complemented strain. E. coli study reports RpoS induction is in absence of intact RpoS degradation pathway. RpoS is at when low level. RpoS is regulator of highly conserved sRNA SraL in S. Typhimurium.
clpv	\N	ClpV ATPase is encoded.
srfa	\N	srfA is in serovar Typhimurium.
srfc	srfC locus encodes homolog.	\N
yael	Akiyama Y. YaeL activates sigma pathway of stress response.	YaeL protease is in Vibrio cholerae.
srfj	\N	SrfJ is synthesized inside host in response to intracellular conditions outside host in myo-inositol-rich environments. srfJ is in LB.
dnak	DnaK regulates class 2 expression. DnaK chaperone machinery is essential for invasion of epithelial cells. molecular chaperone DnaK have have shown. DnaK chaperone machinery is involved in control of HilD turnover. DnaK chaperone regulate class 2 expression. DnaK positively regulates class 2 expression.	DnaK signal is in bacterial culture supernatant. DnaK chaperone machinery is essential for invasion of epithelial cells by Salmonella depending on SPI1 TTSS. DnaK are required for flagellum synthesis in Escherichia coli.
psts	pstS have roles.	\N
envy	Gene envY affects thermoregulation of major porin expression.	envY is most similar.
stm1625	\N	STM1625 is in S. Typhimurium genome.
prpb	\N	prpB functions are required.
kbl	\N	kbl are homologous to same location as equivalent genes in Escherichia coli K-12.
bfd	\N	Bfd is bacterioferritin-associated ferredoxin considered.
btud	\N	B btuD genes are indicated.
hcr	hcp hcr genes have Like ytfE have also shown.	hcr are upregulated in our nsrR mutant.
btub	\N	btuB gene is re-12 pressed by B12 in similar manner.
stm3611	STM3611 act as PDEs. STM3611 controls motility factors. STM3611 inhibits biofilm behaviour. phosphodiesterase STM3611 affect rdar morphotype expression.	phosphodiesterase STM3611 is in S. Typhimurium UMR1. STM3611 is when inactive. Soluble STM3611 is with N-terminal FLAG tag fusion.
bfr	\N	Bfr is in iron storage.
prpr	Wild-type PrpR protein activate transcription. prpR encodes predicted protein with homology to 50 members of sigma-54-dependent family of transcriptional activators. PrpR activity is required for catabolism of propionate in S. typhimurium.	PrpR belongs to NtrC family of transcriptional activators. prpR is in In plasmid opposite direction to lac promoter on cloning vector pSU19. prpR function is necessary. PrpR is responsible for transcriptional activation of prpBCDE operon. prpR functions are required. prpR function is necessary for growth on propionate as carbon.
ydei	YdeI contributes to antimicrobial peptide resistance. ydeI gene encodes 14-kDa predicted oligosaccharide/oligonucleotide binding-fold OB-fold protein important for polymyxin B resistance in broth.	B ydeI mRNA levels is in early stationary phase cells. YdeI is important for resistance to polymyxin B in broth for bacterial survival. YdeI interacts with outer membrane protein OmpD in periplasmic compartment. YdeI copuriﬁes is with OmpD/NmpC. YdeI is important for resistance to polymyxin B in broth.
meng	\N	Meng J. Effect is in ﬂuoroquinolone-resistant Salmonella Typhimurium.
envf	EnvF plays role in Salmonella virulence.	envF gene product is likely.
btur	\N	BtuR is in 12 E. coli.
stm4293	\N	5 ACGCAACAGAAACTTAGTTTCTTGCTTGCGTGTGTA GGCTGGACGTGCTTC 3 5 TATCGTATCGTATAGCTCCACATGACGACGCATATG AATATCCTCCTTA 3 STM4293 are complementary.
hit	\N	hit selection is in RNA interference.
hisr	\N	hisR multigene tRNA operon is In particular transcribed efficiently in vitro.
stm2235	STM2235 encode tail ﬁber proteins.	\N
flhe	FlhE proteins have putative signal peptidase I leader sequence indicative of periplasmic location. flhE genes encode proteins of approximately 14 kDa.	FlhE sequences is in Fig. 1. flhE is transcribed as part of flhBAE flagellar operon under control of flagellar master regulator FlhD2C2. typhimurium LT2 flhE gene is with BLASTP algorithm.
smpb	SmpB control Salmonella gene expression at post-transcriptional level. SmpB regulates histidine biosynthesis in AMM-1. RNA-binding protein SmpB is required for 11. SmpB deletion mutants have same phenotype as tmRNA deletion mutants.	SmpB is in growth. SmpB is important. SmpB are involved in broad cellular functions including growth rate regulation. RNA-binding protein SmpB interacts with sRNA tmRNA.
csra	CsrA control motility-sessility switch in S. Typhimurium at multiple levels. Babitzke P. CsrA regulates translation of Escherichia coli carbon starvation gene. post-transcriptional regulator CsrA plays role in adaptation of bacterial pathogens. csrA act as positive. CsrA inhibits biofilm-associated phenotypes. identified CsrA mRNA targets have have demonstrated. CsrA affect posttranscriptional regulation of multiple invasion genes. RNA-binding protein CsrA regulate class 2 expression. csrA is required for expression of hilD. RNA binding protein CsrA activates csrB transcription in Escherichia coli. CsrA affects expression of genes under different growth conditions. RNA binding protein CsrA controls cyclic di-GMP metabolism. CsrA acts as negative regulator of invasion. CsrA binds to messages of its targets. CsrB-bound CsrA bind target messages. csrA positively regulates expression of SPI1 genes. CsrA bind to its target messages. Romeo T. CsrA represses pgaABCD responsible for synthesis of biofilm polysaccharide adhesin of Escherichia coli. CsrA promotes motility.	active CsrA concentration is Under conditions conducive to invasion kept by decreased production. CsrA binding is with corresponding labelled transcripts. CsrA regulated GGDEF/EAL genes is in E. coli. CsrA interacts with transcripts of eight GGDEF/EAL genes found. RNA binding protein CsrA is regulator of LEE pathogenicity island of enteropathogenic Escherichia coli.
csrb	CsrB play role in Salmonella shown. T. RNA molecule CsrB binds to global regulatory protein CsrA. CsrB bind CsrA. CsrB induce gene expression. CsrB have multiple binding sites for CsrA.	same CsrB degradation pattern is in pnp mutant. CsrB is In standard media most highly expressed in early stationary phase. CsrB is part of csr system shown. Escherichia coli CsrB are strongly induced during growth in nutrient-poor medium. csrB is necessary for maximal expression of SPI1 genes. CsrB is expressed in early stationary phase.
stm1012	\N	STM1012 is alias GtgR Gifsy-2 phage repressor.
stm1344	STM1344 regulate STM3611 expression. STM1344 affects expression of major regulator of multicellular rdar morphotype behavior through downregulation of expression of phosphodiesterases. STM1344 represses expression of phosphodiester-ases. STM1344 controls flagella cascade. D STM1344 regulates rdar morphotype expression. STM1344 has role in c-di-GMP signaling network. STM1344 is required for sessility-motility transition on surfaces.	STM1344 knockout is in genes coding for phosphodiesterases previously identiﬁed. STM1344 is unconventional c-di-GMP-inactive EAL domain protein recently identified as negative regulator of flagella gene expression. S. Typhimurium UMR1 STM1344 mutant is with wild-type STM1344-His6 proteins. STM1344 is part of ﬂagellar regulon.
repa	\N	repA Tetr Ampr Tetr iolR is with putative promoter region cloned into pBR322 for complem iolE.
ssb	\N	ssb is located.
crr	\N	crr mutants is in E. coli genetic background.
cybb	\N	Cybb mice are unable.
crp	CRP activate transcription of wild-type pepT promoter. mutant crp * gene encoding constitutively active form of CRP. CRP regulates logarith-mic-phase gene expression in cAMP-independent manner. CRP have particularly important counterregulatory inﬂuence on expression of sS-regulated genes. Crp systems affect cob. CRP activate transcription binding to well-deﬁned palindromic DNA sequences frequently located at approximately 241 bp relative to start of transcription. CRP regulate their respective operators. CRP activates transcription. CRP affects secretory function of SPI-1 T3SS. Crp act as activator. CRP binding to well-deﬁned palindromic DNA sequences frequently located at approximately 241 bp relative to start of transcription. Crp acts as repressor of tcuR. Salmonella Choleraesuis crp mutants induce immune responses in spleen nodes. crp encodes constitutively active form of CRP protein. CRP binds to ilvB promoter DNA of E. coli. CRP bind CF site of P1 promoter. CRP represses number.	CRP is In class I CRP-dependent promoters known with site for CRP usually centered at position 62.5 72.5. E. coli crp gene is with only four silent base pair changes. crp mutant strains is in combination with loss of cAMP-CRP activation of PprpBCDE itself. CRP interacts with C-terminal domain of RNAP subunit. CRP are positive of starvationstress response of Salmonella typhimurium.
aer	Aer have methyl-accepting signaling domain common to MCP proteins.	Aer is essentially same.
dps	Dps proteins bind DNA. S-dependent gene dps encodes ferritin-like protein involved in Salmonella resistance to oxidative stress. OxyR-regulated gene dps contribute to Salmonella oxidative stress resistance. Dps have have identified in distantly related bacteria. ferritin-like Dps protein is required for Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium oxidative stress resistance.	dps promoter is activated by OxyR during growth by IHF in stationary phase.
leuo	\N	LeuO is global regulator of gene expression in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium. LeuO is regulator of gene expression.
fliz	FliZ control hilA expression. FliZ regulates hilA expression thus serving as important connection between ﬂagellar systems. FliZ encoding class III-speciﬁc sigma factor. FliZ have have previously shown. expressed FliZ protein activates transcription from P1 promoter. FliZ is required for efﬁcient expression of class 2 ﬂagellar operons in poor medium in Salmonella. FliZ regulate three very different transcriptional regulators. ﬂagellar regulator FliZ mediates regulation. FliZ affects activation process of class 2 operons. FliZ controls cellular levels of transcriptional regulators. FliZ is involved in regulation of many cellular processes. FliZ binding to ﬂhDC promoter. FliZ plays role in regulation of SPI1 in response to periplasmic disulﬁde bond status. FliZ acts as repressor of its transcription. FliZ contributes to invasion mechanism of virulence. FliZ act as positive regulator. FliZ affect SPI1 expression in dsbA mutant. FliZ binds to promoter region of nlpC-ydiV operon. FliZ positively regulates hilA expression thus serving as important connection between ﬂagellar systems. FliZ bind to promoter region of ﬂhDC operon. FliZ represses ydiV transcription from nlpC promoter.	FliZ protein is direct antagonist of antiFlhD4C2 factor YdiV in transcriptional control of class 2 ﬂagellar operons. FliZ are activated by same signal. FliZ is responsible for increased levels of FlhC protein independent of ﬂhDC transcription. FliZ is expressed in otherwise ﬂiZ background. due FliZ is in absence of FlhD4C2 autoregulation. ﬂagellar protein FliZ is regulator of HilD activity. FliZ is at crossroads between motility in insect pathogenic bacterium Xenorhabdus.
ptsl	S. typhimurium ptsl coding regions have same length 575 codons.	\N
thic	\N	thiC is 1.89 kb.
rpia	Escherichia coli rpiA gene encoding ribose phosphate isomerase A. J. Bacteriol.	\N
qseb	QseB positively regulates transcription of flagellar genes. QseB regulates transcription of flagellar genes. QseB act as repressor. QseB binds to different sites.	\N
osmy	Yim osmY encodes periplasmic protein in Escherichia coli.	OsmY is periplasmic protein.
hypa	\N	hypA is in S. Typhimurium Antisense RNAs.
ldha	\N	ldhA is in WT strain. lactate dehydrogenase gene ldhA is upregulated.
leux	Pai-associated leuX speciﬁc tRNA5 affects type 1 ﬁmbriation in pathogenic Escherichia coli.	\N
sipd	SipD is required for translocation of effector proteins into host cells.	SipD is required. SipD are integral components.
sipa	sipA genes have InvF-dependent promoter. SipA contribute to Salmonella enterica serotype Typhi-murium invasion of epithelial cells.	sipA genes is in WT Salmonella serovar Typhimurium. Elktagged SipA are secreted into HEp-2 cells from orgC deletion mutant in amounts comparable to those for wt strain.
sipb	Salmonella invasin SipB binding to caspase-1. SPI-1 T3SS effector protein SipB plays role in Salmo-nella pathogenesis.	SipB secretion assay is in WT. SipB is necessary. SipB are escorted by speciﬁc chaperone SicA. SipB is necessary for induction of rapid macrophage apoptosis.
sipc	sipC encodes component of putative translocation pore.	sipC expression is in Salmonella strains grown at pH 6.7. SipC is SPI1-secreted protein. sipC boxes is with vertical lines. SipC are integral components.
stm1954	STM1954 encodes protein unrelated to ﬂagellar formation.	STM1954 is However also expressed.
oafa	\N	oafA is member of family of integral membrane trans-acylases. oafA is member.
bara	BarA activate transcriptional regulator. BarA have two transmembrane alpha helices. BarA activates hilA expression.	barA null mutation is in same strain background. BarA is sensor kinase of phosphorelay type. BarA are homologs of Pseudomonas two-component regulatory factors respectively.
stm3375	\N	STM3375 are highly similar proteins.
csga	UTR.Rv CTCGAGCAGATCTTCTTCAGAAATAAGTTTTTGTTCCGAGATATCTTCCAGAGAACG CTCGAGTGCATTGTTTTAATGGATATG GGATCCAACTTCATTGGCATGCAGGTT AAGACGTGACACACTTCGTTT CAGATCTTCTTCAGAAATAAGTTTTTGTTC GCAGGATAATTTAAGCCGCA TAATCCGCTGACCACGTGTTC AGTTAAAAGTATTTTCGTAAATA CCGGCTAGCGTGACCATGAATACTATGGACTT CAAACGATGCCCGTAAATC TTTAGCGTTCCACTGGTCGA csgA.rt.Fw csgA.rt.Rv csgA CGGTAGTCAACGCTCTGTC GGCCAGAAACGTACCATCGT gyrB.rt.Fw gyrB.rt.Rv gyrB CATCTCATTTCTGTCGCAAAT GACTTGAACAGAATCACACT rprA.Fw rprA.Rv rprANB rprA CACACAGCAATTCGTTGTTTCACTCAGGG 5S RNA CTACGGCGTTTCACTTCTGAGTTC 5SNB RESULTS Deletions have different effects.	CsgA is pathogen-associ-ated.
iclr	\N	iclR gene is in position comparable to that of constitutive mutants.
kdpe	extent KdpE plays role in EHEC virulence. KdpE regulate virulence factors encoded within a horizontally acquired. KdpE bind to DNA promoters. KdpE binding to their promoters. KdpE regulates many downstream genes including virulence factors. KdpE can can also activated by QseC histidine kinase.	KdpE is in virulence. KdpE production is correlated. KdpE interacts with second transcription factor.
asrc	asrC encode siroheme-containing subunit of anaerobic sulfite reductase.	asrC constitute asr operon.
stm2236	\N	STM2236 is Of additional phage genes in SPI-12 similar to head maturation protease.
hisb	\N	Comparable HisB enzyme levels is in CR1/2P. hisB enzyme is single polypeptide.
flil	\N	FliL is membrane-associated component.
pmrb	PmrB plays role in its capacity of main phosphodonor for PmrA. PmrA-cognate sensor PmrB activate PmrA-regulated gene pbgP. PmrA PmrB system represses PmrD expression. PmrB two-component system controls expression of its posttranscriptional activator PmrD. PmrA PmrB two-component system can can activated independently. pmrB have have identiﬁed as in vivo-ex-pressed genes. Salmonella PmrA PmrB two-component system is required for resistance to cationic peptide antibiotic poly-myxin B.	PmrA PmrB two-component A fundamental question is in biology. PmrB is In fact required for activation of PmrA-regulated genes in response. mutant PmrB protein is with T156R substitution. functional pmrB gene is necessary for normal response to mild acid pH.. PmrB expression are connected.
pmra	PmrA control modiﬁcation of LPS. PmrA regulates expression. PmrA motif encoding gene with unknown function. PmrA activates pmrF-containing op-eron. Salmonella PmrA PmrB two-component system is required for resistance to cationic peptide antibiotic poly-myxin B. PmrA is essential for expression of subset of PhoP-regu-lated genes. regulatory protein PmrA controls etiologic agent of human gastroenteritis. PmrA PmrB two-component system can can activated independently. PmrA binding to ssaG promoter indirectly. PmrA acts as transcriptional repressor of gene. pmrA locus encodes two-component system. pmrA genes encode proteins homologous to regulators respectively of two-component family of signal transduction systems. PmrA protein binds to speciﬁc sequence in promoter of ssrB. PmrA bind promoters of other PmrA-regulated loci including pmrCAB. PmrA protein bind to pmrD promoter. activated PmrA protein represses transcription of pmrD gene. PmrA promotes ugd transcription.	polymyxin-resistant pmrA mutant is more resistant to killing by intact human polymorphonuclear neutrophils than isogenic pmrA1 strain. PmrA are similar to members of OmpR-EnvZ family of two-component regulators. PmrA is necessary for resistance of Salmonella serovar Typhimurium to high iron concentrations. point mutated putative PmrA motif A → C pCMPG5611 is with point mutated putative PmrA motif T → C Gibco BRL Invitrogen E. coli DH5α pCRII-TOPO pFPV25 pFPV25 .1 pCMPG5611 pCMPG5612 pCMPG5613 pCMPG5614 pCMPG5621 Plasmids. PmrA is regulator of genes. PmrA UDP-glucose/GDP-mannose dehydrogenase response regulator is in two-component regulatory system with PmrB putative integral membrane protein PhoP-activated gene. Phosphorylated PmrA interacts with promoter region of ugd.
prgk	Gene prgK is involved in formation of membrane-localized basal substructure of complex.	Gene prgK is involved. prgK are components.
dcta	S. typhimurium dctA gene encodes highly hydrophobic polypeptide of 45.4 kDa.	S. typhimurium DctA polypeptide is indicated. Decreased dctA expression is responsible for succinate-negative phenotype of gyrA751. two dctA genes are 85 % identical at nucleotide level.
prgh	prgH encodes structural component of SPI-1 T3SS-1 apparatus. prgH HilA box binds to HilA. prgH mutants have LD50 of approximately 60 organisms. prgH product is required for secretion of Sip proteins.	prgH HilA box 's activity is in absence of upstream sequences including half-site-like hexamers at 2106. prgH is virulence locus for S. typhimurium. PrgH mutants are defective in BME by cultured epithelial cells.
hist	E. coli hisT mutations have similar effect. hisT mutations affect translational efficiency of gnd mRNA.	hisT mutation is Moreover sufficient. hisT is part of multigene operon in Escherichia coli K-12. hisT mutations are highly pleiotro-pic.
aroa	\N	Salmonella typhimurium aroA is in from vivo-inducible promoters. aroA are single.
flha	\N	FlhA is in ﬂagella assembly.
hisp	\N	hisP protein is also arginine transport component.
arof	S. typhimurium aroF gene encodes protein of 356 amino acid residues.	aroF is in two P1.
s70	s70 RNA polymerase binds to E. coli ﬁs P region.	s70 is also important. E. coli s70 235 promoter sequence is in region.
arca	ArcA control expression of at least 392 genes. ArcA regulates expression of genes involved in flagellar bio-synthesis. ArcA activates class 3 flagellar genes. response regulator ArcA is required for Correspondence. ArcA regulate turnover of reduced glutathione. response regulator ArcA mediates ompW negative regulation. ArcA affects fis expression. ArcA is involved in energy metabolism. ArcA acts as activator. ArcA is essential for S. Enteritidis. global regulator ArcA binds to ompW promoter region. ArcA positively regulates expression of genes involved in flagellar bio-synthesis. ArcA bind to 235 element. ArcA regulation can can used.	ArcA is activated in to ROS most likely by phosphorylation of residue D54. ArcA regulon is in anaerobically grown Salmonella enterica sv. ArcA binding sites are indicated.
ssrb	SsrB regulates SPI-12 phage genes. SsrB plays role in activating genes within locus. SsrB activate expression of SPI2 operons. SsrB dependent promoters have have found. SsrB activate transcription binding immediately upstream of their promoters. SsrB regulate locus. transcription factor SsrB is required for expression of its substrate effector proteins. response regulator SsrB activates expression of diverse Salmo-nella pathogenicity island 2 promoters by nucleoid-associated protein H-NS. SsrB response regulator controls about 4 % of Salmonella genome including genes in remnant phage in Salmonella pathogenicity island 12. response regulator SsrB binds to region. SsrB bind promoter. SsrB response regulator promotes transcription of multiple genes within Salmonella pathogenicity island 2.	transcription factor SsrB is required for expression of T3SS encoded within SPI2 for expression of its substrate effector proteins. Salmonella SsrB are 69 % identical at amino acid level. SsrB contains redox-active cysteines. SsrB protein is necessary for transcription of genes. ssrB is in only partially accord with quantiﬁcation of expression levels of Salmonella genes in vivo. SsrB interacts with its target DNA.
serc	\N	serC are single. gene serC is with promoter intact.
oppb	\N	oppB gene products are associated.
srab	SraB affect survival of S. Enteritidis.	\N
aroq	\N	AroQ is dependent.
ydie	\N	ydiE is in S. Typhimurium.
fimh	fimH encode minor fimbrial components.	FimH protein is mannose-specific adhesin. FimH are necessary for assembly of type 1 ﬁmbriae on Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi-murium.
fdhf	fdhF UAS mediates repression by nitrate.	fdhF expression is in parent strain EB137. fdhF is how regulated in E. coli.
fnr	fnr control expression of anaerobic respiratory genes. FNR binding to CF site. FNR regulates expression of several loci involved in ﬂagellar biosynthesis. Fnr plays role in pathogenesis. Fnr activate SPI1 genes. FNR activates genes required for anaerobic metabolism of pyruvate. fnr gene product is required for anaerobic induction of nitrate reductase. Fnr regulate transcription of hybABCDEFG. Fnr acts as cytoplasmic oxygen sensor. Fnr contributes to activation of ftnB. Fnr induce ftnB. FNR positively regulates expression of several loci involved in ﬂagellar biosynthesis. FNR represses genes required for utilization of L-lactate for production oxaloacetate from phosphoenol-pyruvate. oxygen-sensing Fnr regulator promotes feoB transcription. fnr contribute to desiccation tolerance.	proposed FNR site is located upstream from -10 region of most of FNR-dependent promoters. FNR are aligned with hybrid CF binding site. Fnr protein shares considerable homology is with catabolite activator protein CAP. possible Fnr binding site is in regulatory region of E. coli dms operon. Fnr is regulator of SPI1 gene expression.
xyle	\N	XylE activity is in presence of different repressorsa.
cld	\N	cld is in rfb gene cluster.
manb	\N	manB are part.
bassr	BasSR two component system controls expression of pmr locus.	BasSR two component signal transduction system is likely adrenaline sensor.
uhpt	UhpT have identical transmembrane topologies.	UhpT is in amino acid sequence. UhpT are related along their entire lengths with 30.7 % identical amino acids.
stm0294	\N	STM0294 .1 n levels are low.
omps1	ompS1 gene encodes quiescent porin in Salmonella enterica serovars Typhi.	serovar Typhi ompS1 belongs to group of low-level-expressed porins. derepressed ompS1 activity is in hns background. serovar Typhimurium ompS1 mutant is less virulent. ompS1 contains two cis-acting regions. Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium ompS1 are attenuated for virulence in mice. ompS1 is with lacZ fusions in wild-type S. enterica serovar Typhimurium 14028.
tum	Tum binds to its cognate repressor.	Tum is nearly twice size.
tonb	TonB can can chemically crosslinked in vivo to outer membrane receptor FepA.	\N
ssra	SsrA activate ssaG gene expression. ssrA plays role in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium pathogenesis. ssrA gene encodes sensor kinase component of two-component regulatory system necessary for transcription of TTSS. phoP ssrA mutants have survival characteristics. ssrA is required for actions of ompR.	SPI2 ssrA is in response to different phosphorylation levels of OmpR. ssrA transcription is induced inside macrophages presumably in response to vacuolar environment. SsrA are sensor respectively.
stbc	stbC gene product play role in regulatory networ of type 1 ﬁmbrial expression.	\N
siif	\N	SiiF is inner membrane ATPase. SiiF are classical components.
siie	SiiE contributes to intestinal colonization of cattle. siiE is required for long-term survival. SiiE can can secreted independently of SPI1-encoded T3SS.	SiiE contains C-terminal signal sequence conserved among type I secreted proteins. siiE transcription levels is in wild-type hns. SiiE is giant nonﬁmbrial adhesin involved in adhesion of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium to polarized epithelial cells. siiE are separated by noncoding regions respectively. adhesin SiiE is with invasion genes of S. enterica serovar Typhimurium.
siid	\N	SiiD is periplasmic adaptor protein. SiiD are classical components of T1SS.
ydal	\N	ydaL are in E. coli separated by four ORFs namely.
siib	\N	SiiB is 40 % similar to several methyl-accepting chemotaxis.
siia	\N	siiA is ﬁrst gene in Salmonella pathogenicity island 4. siiA upstream region pAMD-BA-lacZ is with rtsA upstream region pAMD-BA-lacZ.
pncb	pncB gene encodes NAPRTase.	\N
mgrb	MgrB mediates negative feedback in PhoQ/PhoP system. mgrB gene product acts as repressive factor. peptide MgrB represses PhoP phosphor-ylation.	putative mgrB homologs is in numerous species. mgrB is Like many other small open reading frames frequently missed in genome annotations. MgrB is part of negative feedback loop in PhoQ/PhoP signaling circuit. MgrB interacts with E. coli PhoQ. MgrB inserts is with its N-terminus in cytoplasm in periplasm.
iole	\N	iolE promoters are also strongly induced in iolR-negative background in comparison to their transcriptional activity in presence of glucose. complem iolE is with putative promoter region cloned into pBR322 for complem Promoter probe vector.
stm3026	\N	STM3026 is Damrepressed locus.
pola	\N	PolA is 5.0-induced. polA strain is with selection for chloramphenicol resistance.
rpo	\N	RPo complexes are unstable.
acrr	local repressor AcrR plays role in regulation of acrAB genes of Escherichia coli by global stress signals.	acrR mutation is in multidrug resistance. AcrR is local repressor.
siic	\N	SiiC are classical components of T1SS.
gltb	\N	gltB gene is in Escherichia coli.
mara	MarA regulates at least 60 genes. MarA mediates drug resistance. marA plays role in S. typhi-murium virulence. MarA binds to mar box located within marO. MarA regulate ompW. regulatory protein MarA represses rob. MarA induce organic solvent tolerance. marA is involved in virulence. MarA protein activates sodA expression. marA encodes positive regulator of antibiotic resistance response acting.	MarA is in E. coli. marA is virulence factor for animal infection. E. coli marA is part of marRAB operon linked. MarA are required for positive regulation.
orfx	orfX encodes acetate kinase-like enzyme.	\N
acrb	AcrB multidrug transporter plays role in high-level ﬂuoroquin-olone resistance in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium phage type DT204. AcrB is essential for multidrug-resistant Salmonella enterica serotype Typhimurium colonization of chicks. AcrB multidrug efﬂux pump is involved in Hfq-mediated multidrug resistance.	acrB is in S. enterica. AcrB is essential for multidrug-resistant Salmonella enterica serotype Typhimurium colonization of chicks. AcrB are 80 % identical in S. enterica with 78 % identity over periplasmic loop regions. resulting acrB mutant is with primer pair usacrF-dsacrF.
sopd2	\N	SopD2 is secreted. sopD2 is with SgrS.
acra	Periplasmic adaptor protein AcrA has role in antibiotic resistance of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium. AcrA encodes putative prophage protein. acrA have have described previously.	WB Mutation Phage Strain Origin SGI1 type AcrA Source is in acrR ratio Nal Flu Enr Cip GyrA GyrB ParC DR strains. AcrA are required for efﬁcient adhesion of epithelial cells by Salmonella in vitro.
puta	PutA protein control region DNA from each of deletion mutants. PutA protein regulates transcription of put operon. putA gene product inhibits expression of put genes. PutA protein regulate gene expression. PutA protein mediates regulation of put operon by proline. puta tive promoter region controls expression of yih genes. PutA protein is involved in regulation of put operon. excess putA protein act as repressor of put genes. putA protein acts as autoregulatory 56 PROLINE P-5-C GLUTAMATE FIG. 1. putA gene encodes bifunctional enzyme with proline dehydrogenase required for oxidation of proline to glutamate. purified PutA protein binds to operator sites on DNA fragments from put regulatory region. PutA protein bind to multiple operator sites in put control region. PutA protein represses transcription of put4. PutA protein binding can can demonstrated in vivo.	PutA protein is DNA-binding protein specific for put control region. putA mutants are However less sensitive to AZT than null alleles. putA gene product is in put REGULATORY MUTATIONS.
marr	MarR binding to marO operator region. MarR regulates expression of marRAB. marR encodes repressor of marRAB transcription. marR controls production of MarA. MarR regulate set of genes involved in multiple antibiotic resistance in E. coli.	marR is in serovar Typhi-murium DT104 strain S/921495. MarR is repressor. MarR family member SlyA are present Tin members of family Enterobacteriaceae.
seqa	SeqA bind nonmethylated DNA. GATC-binding protein SeqA represses std expression. GATC-binding protein SeqA is required for bile resistance in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium.	GATC-binding protein SeqA is repressor. GATC-binding protein SeqA are std repressors.
nrdef	\N	nrdEF is In E. coli upregulated in to H2O2.
nhoa	nhoA encodes N-hydroxyarylamine O-acetyltrans-ferase.	\N
arabad	arabinose catabolism operon araBAD can can activated only in growth condition.	arabinose-inducible araBAD promoter is in pBAD33. araBAD operon is sensitive. partial araBAD promoter is with araI.
marrab	1.1-kbp marRAB operon regulates resistance. marRAB transcription can can also activated by MarA homologs SoxS.	marRAB transcriptional activation is in absence of AsmA. marRAB operon transcriptional start site is helix-turn-helix motif. marRAB is expressed in absence of inducing agent.
tdca	TdcA regulates ﬂiZ transcription. TdcA regulate SPI1.	TdcA is member. TdcA is member of LysR family of transcriptional activators.
stm1530	putative outer membrane protein STM1530 plays role in S. enterica serovar Typhimurium ceftriaxone resistance.	putative outer membrane protein STM1530 is indeed outer membrane protein. STM3031and STM1530 are directly or indirectly regulated.
nlpc	\N	nlpC is in panel A.
nusg	NusG overexpression inhibits Rho-dependent termination.	NusG protein is in in transcription system.
pcm	\N	LB PCM DISCUSSION Expression is strongly dependent.
hmp	ﬂavohemoprotein Hmp mediates adaptive antinitrosative defenses seen in fur mutant bacteria. Hmp acts as reductase of broad specificity. ﬂavohemoprotein Hmp contributes to antinitrosative defenses of. Hmp contribute to antinitrosative defenses of Salmonella.	hmp is expressed in nsrR mutant. nsrR hmp double mutant is affected. hmp knockout mutants are severely compromised for survival in presence of NO in vitro. Hmp is member of NsrR regulon.
stm0551	Access uncharacterized gene stm0551 plays role in regulation of type 1 fimbriae in Salmonella enterica serotype Typhimurium Ke-Chuan Wang1.	stm0551 mutant strain is in culture conditions. STM0551 interacts with fimA gene expression. stm0551 allele is with glutamic acid.
gap	\N	146-bp gap is in S. typhimurium sequence 117 bp upstream of coding region. gap is However only 2 bp.
spic	Salmonella virulence factor SpiC is involved in expression of ﬂagellin protein. Salmonella virulence factor SpiC mediates activation of signal transduction pathways in macrophages. SpiC is required for translocation of Salmonella pathogenicity island 2 effectors.	Salmonella virulence factor SpiC is involved.
ilvb	\N	ilvB expression is in cya strains. ilvB is derepressed.
cbl	CBL is required for four enzymatic reactions.	CBL is From functional perspective required for four enzymatic reactions.
last	\N	last step is in hierarchy of flagellar biosynthesis. last is encountered by numerous pathogens during natural course of infection. last lane contains size standard of X174 DNA cut with HaeIII. last four mgtP codons are part.
carab	carAB operon encodes two subunits of enzyme carbamoylphosphate synthetase.	uracil cytosine control carAB expression is in S. typhimurium. carAB is with exception of orotate.
vacj	\N	gene Primer GCAACCGTACTGAAAGCCAGGG GCCAAAGAAGTCAGTGTTACGGT TTTCCTGCAGGGCGATCCTTATCA CTGCCGTAGAACGGAAGTTGCATA AAACGTGCCGTTGCGGAACTTATC ATTTCTTTGTTCGTCCGCTGCGTG TAACCGCAGCAATTGACGTTACCC TCTACAAGACTCAAGCCTGCCAGT ompD ompD-F ompD-R vacJ vacJ-F vacJ-R psd-F psd-R 16S RNA-F 16S RNA-R psd 16S RNA are underlined.
orf7	\N	ORF7 are previously unrecognized members.
fur	Fur control step in biosynthesis of ALA.. Fur regulates expression of Salmonella pathogenicity island 1 type III secretion system. Fur plays role in metal regulation of hilA. iron-regulatory protein Fur activate ﬂagellar transcription. Fur affect expression of genes in apparent iron-independent fashion. Fur protein play role in stress resistance alterations induced in same model. et al. Fur is required for expression of HilA in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium. Fur activates hilA transcription. Fur mediates Fe2 repression of mntH. Fur affects threshold of HilD required. Fur is involved in manganese-dependent regulation of mntA in Sinorhizobium meliloti. Fur act as positive regulator of pH-regulated locus. Fur binding to promoter sequences in vitro. Fur acts as repressor of genes required for iron homeostasis. Fur controls innate mechanism of detoxiﬁcation of NO. Fur regulate acid shock genes. Fur contributes to Salmonella pathogenesis in acute model of infection. iron-sensing Fur regulator represses feoB transcription. Sinorhizobium meliloti fur gene encoding metal-type transporter. Fur contribute to antinitrosative defenses of Salmonella. Fur has role in cell.	fur mutant is compromised for survival within macrophages even in absence of elevated NO levels in non-stimulated macrophages. Fur binding motif are shown above corresponding putative sites underlined in mntH promoter regions. Fur contains zinc for protein stability. study fur is with in-frame expression of hemagglutinin epitope in AvaI HindIII sites of pACYC184 to 20 bp. Fur regulon is in anaerobically grown Salmonella enterica sv Typhimurium. Fur is regulator of nrdHIEF.
rcsf	\N	RcsF is outer membrane lipoprotein involved in RcsCDB phosphorelay signaling pathway in Escherichia coli.
slt	\N	transglycosylase SLT domains is in S. Typhimurium. Slt is principal lytic transglycosylase responsible for turn-over of PG. MltE lytic transglycosylase SLT domains are highly related.
ada	Ada protein play role in serovar Typhimurium tolerance to organic acid stress.	Escherichia coli K-12 ada deletion is in recD strain. ada is In strain joined to lacZ gene gene so.
gtra	gtrA genes encode membrane proteins.	gtrA genes are predicted. partial gtrA coding sequence is with grey box.
air	\N	AIR are unknown.
cydab	\N	d cydAB oxidase gene expression is regulated by oxygen.
agar	solid agar inhibits its expression. LB agar have have previously described.	EBU agar contains used for routine puri-ﬁcation of transductants. soft agar is in presence of tetracycline. L agar is Luria agar. nutrient agar is with 5 g of NaCl per liter.
gnd	gnd gene encodes 6-phosphogluconate of dehydrogenase.	gnd gene is in possible orientations into K NF1955. gnd gene is inducible in E. coli K-12. gnd ATCC 14028s is with MudJ insertion in yibD ATCC 14028s. gnd is at when its normal chromosomal position.
many	many carbon sources activate Pho regulon. many regulate their own expression. Many OmpR-regulated S. Typhimuriumspecific targets contribute to pathogenesis. Many environmental factors have have reported to inﬂuence SPI1 gene expression including low oxygen tension. Many TCS play role in Salmonella virulence. many solutes induce proU expression. many regulatory sequences can can categorized as P22-like.	many putative drug efﬂux pumps is in Salmonella genome. many diverse biochemical systems is clearly advantageous. many different cell types are During enteric infections targets for S. Typhimu-rium including enterocytes. many microenvironments is with diverse environmental conditions.
znua	Campylobacter jejuni znuA orthologue is essential for growth in low-zinc environments.	ZnuA accumulation is in strain lacking. ZnuA accumulation is In contrast comparable to that observed in wild-type strain.
fadl	\N	fadL is outer membrane transporter required for uptake of LCFA.
stm1987	STM1987 promotes synthesis of biofilm polysaccharide cellulose. STM1987 acts as activator of biofilm formation.	\N
mdoh	mdoH gene product is involved in synthesis of mem-brane-derived oligosaccharides.	mdoH gene product is involved.
tctc	\N	TctC is tricarboxylate-binding-receptor component of TctABC tripartite-tricarboxylate transporter of S. Typhimurium involved in citrate utilization. tctC are C-terminally truncated TTTTTATCCTCACGCCGGACGTCCGGATTTTTCA -121 CRP.
mota	\N	motA is in which. MotA protein is proton-conducting component. MotA are integral.
motb	\N	MotB are integral to cell membrane.
flhd	Escherichia coli ﬂagellar transcriptional activator FlhD regulates cell division.	FlhD dimer is in DNA .11 Our data. FlhD is regulator. FlhD C interaction is with its binding site ,11 4 2. FlhD proteins are subjected to posttranslational control at level of protein degradation in P. mirabilis swarm cells. FlhD is regulator of cell division. flhD operon belongs to class I.
rcsab	\N	RcsAB box is in promoter region of several genes.
dinf	\N	dinF gene is member of SOS response family. dinF gene is member.
glna	\N	glnA is transcribed.
flhb	FlhB regulates ordered export of flagellar components. FlhB C-terminal homologue HP1575 acts as spare part. FlhB protein can can altered. Helicobacter pylori FlhB processing-deficient variants affect flagellar gene expression.	FlhB is membrane-bound. FlhB is part of type III export machinery.
glng	\N	glnG is in K. pneumoniae. glnG are evolutionarily related.
ylih	YliH regulate Escherichia coli K-12 bioﬁlm formation.	\N
virk	Falkow S. virK are important for Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium infection.	VirK is upregulated. Falkow S. virK are important for Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium infection.
dsba	DsbA inhibits activation of RcsCDB system. DsbA affect extracellular enzyme formation in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. DsbA regulate hilA. DsbA is required for stability of type IV pilin of enteropathogenic Escherichia coli. DsbA acts as periplasmic oxidase. DsbA is involved in ﬂagellar biosynthesis. dsbA promoter expression plays role in repression of dsbA transcription in early-exponential-phase growth. dsbA encodes periplasmic disulﬁde bond isomerase. DsbA is essential for multiple virulence factors.	DsbA is required for stable expression of outer membrane protein YscC for efﬁcient Yop secretion in Yersinia pestis. two distinct dsbA transcripts is with 2.5-fold increase in level of smaller transcript under NlpE-overproducing conditions compared to level for induced cells containing. dsbA is member of ToxR regulon. two distinct dsbA transcripts is in wild-type serovar Typhimurium of approximately 0.8 kb. dsbA srgA double mutants are Indeed mucoid.
pdua	\N	pduA genes is in Dhfq mutant strain.
virb	\N	virB transcription is in Shigella flexneri.
hupa	hupA encode subunits.	\N
hupb	hupB encode subunits. hupB encodes subunit. hupB encoding nucleoid-associated protein.	\N
nrdhief	nrdHIEF have leading role.	nrdHIEF expression is independently regulated.
flhc	FlhC bind to DNA region upstream of class 2 promoter.	FlhC is master regulator protein involved in flagellar biogenesis in Salmonella. flhC repression is in tviA expressing. flhC genes are master regulators required.
pepe	\N	pepE is in BamHI site of pBR328 pJG30. pepE is member of CRP regulon. pepE is first peptidase gene shown.
pmrd	PmrD protein activates PmrA protein. PmrD mediates transcriptional activation. PmrD protein binds to phosphorylated form of PmrA. PmrD protein regulate activity of PmrA.	pmrD mutant is in high-level-PM-resistant strain background. PmrD protein is transcriptionally induced in low Mg2 in PhoP-dependent manner. pmrD fusion is with primers JG252.
stm2239	STM2239 functions determine whether. STM2239 activates additional phage genes.	STM2239 is regulator of STM2234-STM2237 operon. STM2239 is transcriptional regulator. ctacaaatgcctcat START FIG 7 STM2239 copuriﬁes is with STM2237 promoter.
stm1499	STM1499 encode subunits of anaerobic dimethyl sulfoxide reductase.	\N
wcak	\N	wcaK are part.
dam	Dam methylation control phase variation systems. Dam methylation regulates invasion genes of pathogenicity island I. Dam strains have motility defect. Dam methylation activates gene expression in wild type. functional Dam is required for adequate levels of pmrA. Dam methylation regulate expression of virulence-related genes. Dam affects hilD mRNA stability consistent with our results. Dam methylation controls elongation of certain transcripts. Dam is involved in epigenetic phase variation in conjunction with Lrp for phase variation of family of pap ﬁmbrial operons. Dam methylation acts as transcriptional repressor. Dam affect virulence. Dam methylation represses traJ transcription effect of hns mutation.	functional Dam is in S. Enteritidis required for adequate levels of pmrA. dam mutant is with temperature-sensitive phenotype. Salmonella Dam mutants is in mouse model. Dam is regulator of phase variation of putative virulence factor gtr. Results Dam methylation participates are only two known wzz regulators described in S. Typhimurium.
rfbh	Salmonella Enteritidis lipopolysaccharide biosynthesis gene rfbH is required for survival in egg albumen.	Salmonella Enteritidis lipopolysaccharide biosynthesis gene rfbH is required.
yihu	\N	yihU promoter is regulated.
pept	pepT encoding tripeptidase. pepT P1 promoter can can considered.	pepT carrying mutations is in several other peptidase genes. pepT gene is transcribed approximately 20-fold more ef-ﬁciently under anaerobic conditions. pepT promoter region contains three appearances of sequence AAAGTGA. pepT P1 are indicated. pepT is member of Fnr family of anaerobically induced genes.
pyrc	\N	putative pyrC leader mRNA structures is in figure 3. pyrC expression is controlled primarily. shorter G-started wild-type pyrC orpyrD leader transcripts is with limited potential form.
hild	HilD control transcription of hilA gene. HilD regulates hilC expression. HilD act as repressors of different ﬂhDC promoters. HilD activate expression of other SPI1 regulators. HilD have similar consensus DNA-binding sites. HilD activates expression of hilA by direct contact with C-terminal domain of RNA polymerase. hilD is required for propionate-mediated repression of Salmonella genes essential for tissue invasion. hilD play role in regulation of hilA expression. HilD mediates transcriptional cross talk between SPI-1. HilD affects hilA expression. HilD controls transcription of genes. hilD encode known regulators of Salmonella virulence. HilD binding to same sites in promoter region. HilD acts as major point of integration of regulatory signals. HilD regulate expression of other genes independent of their effects on hilA expression. HilD induce expression of inv/spa operon independent of HilA. hilD gene is essential for hilA expression. HilD binds to degenerate sequence motif. HilD bind same DNA sites upstream of hilD. HilD proteins bind to multiple regions in hilA promoters. HilD promotes hilA expression. hilD can can expressed from lac promoter.	J.M. HilD constitute feed. hilD translation start site are shown below autoradiograph of gel in relation to hilD transcription start sites. HilD is necessary for HilA expression. HilD belongs to AraC/XylS family of transcriptional regulators. HilD contains C-terminal helix-turn-helix DNA-binding motif within conserved 99-amino-acid domain characteristic of AraC/XylS family members. hilD is among known SPI1 regulators required for propionate-mediated repression of Salmonella genes essential for tissue invasion. HilD interacts with subunit of RNA polymerase. HilD is with its DNA-binding domain deleted on ﬂagellar genes expressed from class 1 class 2 ﬂiL-lac. HilD is member of AraC/XylS family of regulators. T7 RNA polymerase BL21 Plasmid pUC19 Amp r Laboratory collection 14 hilD expression is in pZC320 hilD. HilD is at top of hierarchy of regulation of SPI1 expression. HilD is regulator of hilA transcription.
fhla	\N	fhlA is in regulation offdhF expression.
fimw	FimW regulates ﬁm gene expression. FimW act as transcriptional coactivator. FimW inhibits FimZ-dependent activation of ﬁm promoters. FimW have wider regulatory role. FimW regulate ﬁm gene expression. FimW is involved in serovar Typhimurium type 1 ﬁmbrial regulation. FimW bind to DNA. ﬁmW FimW represses expression from P promoter.	FimW is on FimZ negative regulator of type 1 ﬁmbrial gene expression. FimW is in FimZW construct. FimW interacts with FimZ. FimW is regulator of serovar Typhimurium type 1 ﬁmbrial expression.
iscr	IscR represses expression of Escherichia coli genes.	\N
fimy	FimY polypeptide plays role in ﬁmbrial expression in two independent isolates. FimY activate ﬁmA expression. FimY regulate fimbrial production. FimY activates expression of PﬁmW promoter. FimY is involved in phosphorylation of FimZ. FimY have have previously shown. FimY act as transcriptional coactivator.	fimY expression is in translational level. FimY is under normal physiological conditions involved in phosphorylation of FimZ. FimY are why required for strong PﬁmA promoter activity. FimY is necessary for FimZ activity. FimY is regulator of ﬁmbrial expression.
fimz	FimZ regulates dynamics of SPI1 gene expression. FimZ mediates ﬁmA expression. FimZ inhibits motility. FimZ regulate expression of its own gene. FimZ is required for fimA expression. FimZ regulator activates expression of fimAICDHF operon. Fimz production affects ability of S. enterica serovar Typhi-murium ﬁmz2. FimZ activate fimA expression in S. Typhimurium. FimZ transcriptional factor binding to fimA promoter. FimZ acts as positive regulator of ﬁmA. FimZ controls dynamics of SPI1 gene expression. FimZ protein binds to ﬁmA promoter. FimZ bind PﬁmA promoter. FimZ positively regulates its own transcription. FimZ bind to ﬁmA promoter. FimZ represses expression of ﬂagellar genes. FimZ affect expression of ﬁmY.	FimZ is positive transcriptional activator of type 1 ﬁmbrial expression in serovar Typhi-murium. serovar Typhimurium FimZ are Instead necessary for serovar Typhimurium ﬁmA transcription. FimZ belongs to family of bacterial response regulators of two-component systems. phosphorylated FimZ is necessary for optimal activation of ﬁmA. FimZ interaction is with RNA polymer-ase. FimZ is homologous to known response regulators. FimZ synthesis is in lrp mutants harboring. FimZ is regulator of type 1 ﬁmbrial gene expression.
cysz	\N	cysA gsr ptsI ptsH cysK cysZ dsd is in S. typhimurium.
ycfr	ycfR plays role in attachment of other S. enterica serovars to various fruit. ycfR regulates biofilm production. ycfR contributes to biofilm formation in S. enterica. ycfR encodes putative membrane protein in E. coli K-12. ycfR contribute to S. enterica surface attachment.	Chlorine Resistance ycfR deletion mutants is in S. Typhimurium. Gene ycfR is also completely conserved. ycfR are involved.
scis	sciS play role in S. enterica serovar Typhimurium.	sciS is in macrophages. sciS induction is markedly different than that of SPI2 genes as expression levels for seven SPI2 genes. sciS is expressed in host macrophages.
dusb	dusB have 98 % nucleotide identity.	\N
phd	Phd repressor-antitoxin protein binds to 8-bp palindromic Phd-binding sites in promoter region. Phd repressor-antitoxin protein represses transcription.	Addiction protein Phd is substrate. Natural Phd binding sites are shown. study pRS1553 P1 phd doc P1 phd pRDM032 pRDM034 pXZ006 pXZ024 pXZ029 pXZ030 pXZ032 pXZ033 pXZ034 pXZ035 pXZ036 pXZ037 pXZ062 St103 is with single GTGT ACAC palindrome P1 promoter.
sopb	SopB activate Rho family of GTPases Rac1. sopB genes encoding effector proteins secreted by type III secretion system on Salmonella pathogenicity island 1. SopB promotes intestinal disease. sopB encode TTS effectors. SopB is involved in stimulation of cellular chloride secretion. SopB contribute to Salmonella enterica serotype Typhi-murium invasion of epithelial cells.	SopB secretion assay is in CP327 complemented with p705CRP. SopB is inositol phosphate phosphatase. SopB are required for orchestrated invasion.
fima	fimA promoter activate its expression.	plasmid cloning vector pACYC184 de-repressed fimA expression is in culture conditions. fimA gene is transcribed. fimA four motifs are located upstream of fimA transcription start site. fimA expression interacts with FimZ.
fimb	FimB mediates recombination.	fimB are However in E. coli two genes needed.
sopa	SopA contribute to Salmonella enterica serotype Typhi-murium invasion of epithelial cells.	SopA production is controlled. SopA binding site is with nucleotide substitutions. sopA are activated by invFsicA.
isca	\N	IscA are members of two families of proteins involved in generalized iron-sulfur Fe-S protein maturation.
grpe	GrpE heat shock proteins regulate heat shock gene expression.	GrpE are required for ﬂagellum synthesis in Escherichia coli.
sopd	SopD contribute to Salmonella enterica serotype Typhi-murium invasion of epithelial cells. SopD acts as dual effector delivered.	SopD is known as general virulence factor with multiple roles in development of gastroenteritis.
flgk	\N	FlgK are However exported efﬁciently only after completion of hook-basal body assembly.
flgi	\N	FlgI are only proteins.
flgh	\N	FlgH are needed for completion of HBBs.
opda	Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium opdA gene encodes metalloprotease oligopeptidase A. OpdA is required for proteolytic processing of phage P22 protein in vivo.	opdA ORF is in GenBank sequence accession no. opdA is homolog of Escherichia coli prlC gene conferred by certain signal sequence mutations. opdA constitute operon. opdA are Thus indeed previously unidentiﬁed heat shock genes.
iagb	iagB gene encoding muramidase.	iagB is gene downstream of same operon with hilA.
topa	\N	topA expression is in mutants.
arab	\N	araB mRNA levels is in strain LA663 containing.
amph	ampH encoding penicillin-binding protein.	\N
orf242	\N	orf242 is apparently co-transcribed.
acka	\N	ackA pta region is in strain 14028s. AckA is primarily ATP-dependent enzyme. ackA are where deleted.
gst	\N	GST expression is with IPTG.
kdgr	\N	KdgR regulon is in Erwinia chrysanthemi 3937.
cysp	cysP promoters have second discrete binding sites. cysP encode 13.	cysP promoter fragment is in gel mobility shift assays. cysP promoter is found. cysP promoter contains two sites.
yhbj	\N	novel protein YhbJ is in Escherichia coli.
slrp	SlrP is required for colonization of Peyer 's patches in mouse small intestine.	SlrP production is controlled posttranscriptionally.
hyab	\N	hyaB is in E. coli. hyaB is located.
s28	s28 activate transcription of ﬂhDC operon.	s28 protein belongs to conserved s70 family of transcription factors. there should free s28 is in cell. 239-amino-acid s28 protein is represented. s28 binding is with that of wild-type FlgM. s28 proteins are 239 amino acids in length.
stm3253	STM3253 encodes protein with signiﬁcant homology of 38 % to B. subtilis IolJ.	\N
nsrr	nitric oxide-responsive regulator NsrR controls ResDE-dependent gene expression. nsrR mutant bacteria have elevated levels of Hmp relative to wild-type.	NsrR is regulator of hmp. NsrR targets is in Escherichia coli genome. NsrR is major regulator of hmp in S. typhimurium. NsrR contains NO-sensitive cluster. NsrR are For example dedicated sensors of NO. nsrR mutant is with less 10 % of cells surviving at 10 min after H2O2 treatment.
stm4118	STM4118 encode putative membrane proteins consistent with location of LPS phosphoethanolamine phosphotransferase.	\N
arae	\N	araE Gene is in Salmonella typhimurium LT2 SiX L-arabinose transport-deficient mutants of Salmonella tyhimurium LT2. araE gene is positively regulated.
mlc	Mlc binding to two distinct sites in hilE P3 promoter region. mlc gene plays role in expression of genes involved in cytotoxicity. Mlc activates SPI1 gene expression. Mlc protein binds to hilE promoter. Mlc affects virulence of Salmonella. Mlc regulate hilE P3 promoter. Mlc represses hilE P3 promoter. Mlc controls several genes involved in sugar utilization. Mlc regulates hilE expression. Mlc activate SPI1. Mlc regulon can can induced by glucose to lesser extent by mannose. Mlc act as negative regulator of hilE.	Mlc sequestration is in Glc presence of glucose. Mlc is global regulator. Mlc is regulator of carbohydrate metabolism.
uhpb	membrane-localized UhpB activate uhpT transcription UhpA.	UhpB positive roles is in control of uhpT transcription. uhpB coding sequence is followed by 9-bp intergenic region before start of 442-codon uhpC coding sequence. UhpB contains 10 transmembrane segments. UhpB amino acid sequences are 91 % identical in two organisms.
gdh	\N	plasmid-coded GDH activity is in glucose-ammo-nia-grown cells. GDH is synthesized in various media in parallel with pattern observed for chromosomally coded GDH.
sptp	SptP inhibits mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway. SptP have several functions.	sptP is in SPI1. Salmonella typhimurium tyrosine phosphatase SptP is translocated. sptP are regulated by FIG. 3.
smva	SmvA efﬂux pump is involved in susceptibility in Salmonella.	SmvA efﬂux pump is involved. Typhimurium smvA are required for efﬁcient efﬂux of methyl viologen.
speed	\N	speed setting is in Gyrotory shaker. speed is important survival advantage.
stm4417	\N	STM4417 is in strain LT2. STM4417 knockout Insertion-duplication mutant is with STM4432 knockout Spontaneous streptomycin-resistant mutant of 14028 In-frame iolR.
safc	safC gene encoding small outer membrane fimbrial usher protein.	\N
gmm	\N	gmm transcription is in wild-type strains. gmm transcription is upon activation of RcsC-YojN-RcsB phosphorelay induced sixfold in igaA1 mutant. gmm gene is necessary for production of colanic acid capsule. gmm gene is expressed in wild-type bacteria.
flgd	FlgD protein acts as scaffold for hook subunits.	Iino T. FlgD is scaffolding protein needed for flagellar hook assembly in Salmonella typhimurium.
hisd	\N	silent hisD gene is In one case activated by fusion to argA promoter at join point of duplication. hisD is with left endpoint of insertion 151 bp downstream of hisD translation initiation codon.
nird	\N	nirD boxes is with horizontal lines.
iacp	DISCUSSION IacP plays role in S. Typhimurium virulence. IacP acts as acyl carrier protein. IacP affects phase variation. IacP is involved in regulation of ﬂagellin expression in S. Typhimurium under SPI1-inducing conditions.	iacP gene is in S. Typhimurium. IacP is associated.
nirb	\N	nirB gene is in E. coli.
pili	\N	sfa pili operons is in Escherichia coli. P pili are shorter.
igaa	igaA gene regulates expression of ﬂagellar master operon ﬂhDC. null igaA allele can can maintained only in igaA igaA merodiploid. IgaA regulate ﬂhDC. IgaA is required for Salmonella virulence. attenuator IgaA controls part of Rcs regulon. IgaA contribute to virulence. igaA encodes 14. igaA mutation induce RcsB activity. IgaA represses Rcs signaling system.	igaA gene is In Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium located at centisome 75 between genes. igaA are present exclusively in enterobacteria with exception of endosymbiotic bacteria. igaA is homologous to yrfF in Escherichia coli in Proteus mirabilis. viable igaA alleles is in S. enterica serovar Typhimurium. IgaA interacts with RcsB-RcsC regulatory system.
tctd	\N	TctD is Perhaps functionally related. tctD are C-terminally truncated TTTTTATCCTCACGCCGGACGTCCGGATTTTTCA -121 CRP.
yecc	yecC encodes amino acid transport protein of ABC ATP-binding cassette family.	YecC is Interestingly also very similar.
adi	ADI system plays role in bacterial pathogenesis. STM4467-encoded ADI contributes to Salmonella virulence.	ADI pathway gene cluster is in S. Typhimurium. ADI pathway is also implicated. ADI activity is with that of its isogenic STM4467 deletion mutant.
stpa	StpA paralogue binds to DNA regions similar to those bound by H-NS in E. coli wt cells. H-NS-like protein StpA represses RpoS regulon.	more StpA protein is in NLM2173. stpA gene is derepressed. StpA contains phenylalanine at position 21.
nmpc	nmpC encode proteins found in outer membrane.	\N
psi	\N	psi genetic loci is in Salmonella typhimurium. designation psi is used however.
uhpa	uhpA is required for uhpT transcription.	UhpA is in its unphosphorylated inactive state. uhpA is Thus absolutely required regardless.
groel	GroEL have Consistently have shown.	\N
rna	small RNA chaperone Hfq control quorum sensing in Vibrio harveyi. PhoQ/P-regulated small RNA regulates sensitivity of Escherichia coli to antimicrobial peptides. RNA polymerase regulatory protein DksA plays role in expression of antioxidant defenses of Salmonella. Urban conserved small RNA activate GlmS synthesis. S. small RNA IstR inhibits synthesis of SOS-induced toxic peptide. RNA samples determine transcriptional start point in strain backgrounds. RNA binding protein CsrA activates csrB transcription in Escherichia coli. only RNA polymerase is required for maximum expression of aralf promoters. arginine transfer RNA fimU regulate fimbrial production. Sm-like RNA chaperone Hfq mediates transcription antitermination. RNA polymerase regulatory protein DksA controls stringent response of eubacteria. RNA sequences are important for FljA binding to 5 UTR. RNA polymerase binding to 1.4-kb SmaI-SmaI fragment. RNA polymerase bind to promoters. small RNA acts as antisilencer of H-NS-silenced rcsA gene of Escherichia coli. RNA polymerase binding protein DksA contributes to antinitrosative defenses of enteric pathogen S. enterica serovar Typhimurium. small RNA is essential for low temperature expression of rpoS during exponential growth in Escherichia coli. small regulatory RNA mol-ecule MicA is involved in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium biofilm formation. RNA polymerase bind transcribed somewhat less efficiently. T. RNA molecule CsrB binds to global regulatory protein CsrA. small non-coding RNA represses outer membrane protein synthesis from Salmonella core genome. Urban conserved small RNA promotes discoordinate expression of glmUS operon mRNA. IsrH-1 RNA can Under conditions can hardly detected at exponential phase. UTR.Rv CTCGAGCAGATCTTCTTCAGAAATAAGTTTTTGTTCCGAGATATCTTCCAGAGAACG CTCGAGTGCATTGTTTTAATGGATATG GGATCCAACTTCATTGGCATGCAGGTT AAGACGTGACACACTTCGTTT CAGATCTTCTTCAGAAATAAGTTTTTGTTC GCAGGATAATTTAAGCCGCA TAATCCGCTGACCACGTGTTC AGTTAAAAGTATTTTCGTAAATA CCGGCTAGCGTGACCATGAATACTATGGACTT CAAACGATGCCCGTAAATC TTTAGCGTTCCACTGGTCGA csgA.rt.Fw csgA.rt.Rv csgA CGGTAGTCAACGCTCTGTC GGCCAGAAACGTACCATCGT gyrB.rt.Fw gyrB.rt.Rv gyrB CATCTCATTTCTGTCGCAAAT GACTTGAACAGAATCACACT rprA.Fw rprA.Rv rprANB rprA CACACAGCAATTCGTTGTTTCACTCAGGG 5S RNA CTACGGCGTTTCACTTCTGAGTTC 5SNB RESULTS Deletions have different effects.	small non-coding RNA molecule is In Salmonella Typhimurium as in E. coli encoded in opposite strand of luxS. gene Primer GCAACCGTACTGAAAGCCAGGG GCCAAAGAAGTCAGTGTTACGGT TTTCCTGCAGGGCGATCCTTATCA CTGCCGTAGAACGGAAGTTGCATA AAACGTGCCGTTGCGGAACTTATC ATTTCTTTGTTCGTCCGCTGCGTG TAACCGCAGCAATTGACGTTACCC TCTACAAGACTCAAGCCTGCCAGT ompD ompD-F ompD-R vacJ vacJ-F vacJ-R psd-F psd-R 16S RNA-F 16S RNA-R psd 16S RNA are underlined. E. coli RNA polymerase interacts with two different promoters. RNA polymerase holoenzyme is responsible for transcription of most genes during exponential growth. mannose-speciﬁc enzyme IIAB Methyl-accepting chemotaxis protein Outer membrane lipoprotein ATP-dependent RNA helicase-like protein Cytoplasmic protein Cytoplasmic protein Inner membrane protein Periplasmic protein Putative class 3 cheV is with proﬁles different from known. Washington 981033 Received 21 September 2005/Accepted 18 November 2005 RNA levels is in eight different genetic backgrounds. RNA binding protein CsrA is regulator of LEE pathogenicity island of enteropathogenic Escherichia coli.
degs	DegS activate sigma dependent extracytoplasmic stress response.	DegS is inner-membrane-anchored serine protease of HtrA family with proteolytic domains positioned in periplasm.
cysi	\N	cysI mutants are prototrophs.
rnd	RND pumps contribute to pathogenicity. RND pumps have have also shown.	resistance-nodulation-division RND superfamily member AcrAB-TolC is in Enterobacteriaceae.
arac	CRP-activated arabinose-responsive protein AraC binding to secondary signal.	AraC family putative ATPase is in two-component regulatory system with PmrA UDP-glucose/GDP-mannose dehydrogenase response regulator. AraC is probably class I transcription activator on basis of position of its activation binding site. araC regulatory gene mRNA contains leader sequence. AraC interacts with its target DNAs.
fhuf	\N	FhuF is with new type of center.
fhua	fhuA encode components of hydroxamate-dependent iron transport system.	\N
stm2666	STM2666 encodes protein identical to E. coli K-12 PheA leader peptide.	\N
fhuc	fhuC encode components of hydroxamate-dependent iron transport system.	\N
uhpc	UhpC proteins activate uhpT transcription UhpA. UhpC act as receptor for Glu6P. UhpC have identical transmembrane topologies.	UhpC is in organisms. UhpC contains Glu6P-binding site relevant for regulation. UhpC is longer than UhpC of E. coli owing to insertion of three amino acids just before last residue.
rnr	\N	rnr expression levels is in wild-type mutant strains. rnr are co-transcribed.
uvrc	UvrC have excision repair function. uvrC encodes subunit of UvrABC DNA excision repair enzyme.	sirA uvrC is in pWKS30 Knr. S. typhimurium uvrC is similar in size to E. coli uvrC gene.
tig	\N	or tig mRNA levels is in conditions tested. tig mRNA levels are higher.
inve	Salmonella type III secretion-associated protein InvE controls translocation of effector proteins into host cells.	invE mutant defects is with plasmids pINVG1.
stm4467	FIG 2 STM4467 gene contributes to S. Typhimurium virulence. STM4467 gene encodes ADI in S. Typhimurium. STM4467 genes encode ADI. STM4467 gene is required for full ADI activity.	STM4467 is in S. Typhimurium growing inside macrophages. STM4467 gene is required. STM4467 genes are predicted.
sica	TTSS chaperone protein SicA activate expression of several effector proteins including protein encoded by sopB. sicA encode chaperone. SicA is required for expression of invF.	sicA is directly regulated by HilA via putative HilA box immediately upstream of sicA. TTSS chaperone protein SicA interacts with InvF.
sitabcd	putative iron transport system SitABCD is required for full virulence of Salmonella typhimurium.	SitABCD is alkaline Mn2 transporter of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium. sitABCD promoter contains MntR binding sites. SitABCD are essential.
stm4463	STM4463 gene encodes transcriptional regulator downstream of ADI gene cluster. FIG 4 STM4463 protein promotes transcription of STM4467 gene. STM4463 deletion mutant induce expression of three genes. STM4463 regulation affect survival of. STM4463 protein act as regulator of Salmonella ADI expression. STM4463 regulator contribute to Salmonella virulence.	STM4463 region is in strain 14028s. STM4463 gene is in which expressed from lac promoter. STM4463 regulator is necessary for S. Typhimurium replication inside macrophages.
otsa	otsA encode trehalose-6-phosphate synthase. otsA have major role.	\N
ptsi	\N	cysA gsr ptsI ptsH cysK cysZ dsd is in S. typhimurium.
pagp	\N	5 | TCRS-mediated pagP is in baﬁlomycin-treated WT. pagP is gene believed.
pagk	\N	pagK are also controlled by PhoPQ signaling system.
pagn	pagN encode membrane proteins. PagN protein mediates invasion.	PagN is in intracellular bacteria. PagN protein is adhesin.
ptsn	ptsN gene encoding EIIANtr. ptsN gene encodes component of nitrogen-metabolic PTS.	ptsN gene is E member of σ regulon.
gadw	\N	GadW is transcription factor encoded within acid ﬁtness island.
pagd	\N	pagD gene is For S. enterica serovar Typhimurium present upstream of cspH.
uvrb	\N	delta uvrB mutations is in Ames strains of Salmonella span 15. uvrB gene product is known.
ptsg	\N	ptsG mRNA is in work by Maki et al.. PtsG EIICBGlc protein is relevant transporter.
flin	\N	Khan S. FliN is major structural protein.
tran	\N	their PhoP tran scriptional dependence is in cells grown.
trba	\N	trbA is in region. trbA is when provided in cis under control of its normal promoter. most trbA transcripts are monocistronic.
mura	\N	murA transcript is in strains.
dead	\N	Dead staining is in fecal pellets.
frub	\N	case two fruB mutants did ferment mannitol is in which.
lola	periplasmic LolA de-rivative activates CpxR/CpxA system.	periplasmic LolA derivative is with lethal disulfide bond.
psd	\N	gene Primer GCAACCGTACTGAAAGCCAGGG GCCAAAGAAGTCAGTGTTACGGT TTTCCTGCAGGGCGATCCTTATCA CTGCCGTAGAACGGAAGTTGCATA AAACGTGCCGTTGCGGAACTTATC ATTTCTTTGTTCGTCCGCTGCGTG TAACCGCAGCAATTGACGTTACCC TCTACAAGACTCAAGCCTGCCAGT ompD ompD-F ompD-R vacJ vacJ-F vacJ-R psd-F psd-R 16S RNA-F 16S RNA-R psd 16S RNA are underlined.
cdtb	\N	CdtB expression is in macrophages. CdtB is cytolethal distending toxin associated with DNA damage.
prpd	\N	PrpD are in three proteins required for catabolism of propionate in S. typhimurium.
ecnr	\N	ecnR gene is located.
frur	FruR bind to hairpin structure.	fruR leu ara is approximately 0.2 min from leu from ara.
sufd	\N	SufD are members.
sura	surA affect membrane integrity.	surA ATCC 14028s is with MudJ insertion in tolB ATCC 14028s.
icd	\N	control gene icd is in same reaction.
prom	\N	work oter prom 14028s/pMutC-lacZ work oter prom Wild-type strain is with pLacZ vector carrying.
lsrr	LsrR binding to their promoters. LsrR regulates invasiveness of Salmonella. LsrR represses expression of lsr operon in absence of phospho-AI-2. LsrR regulator controls expression of SPI-1 genes. Invasion Assay Figure S2 LsrR is required for regulation of invF HEp-2 cells. LsrR is involved in regulation of SPI-1 expression. active LsrR regulate expression of SPI-1.	LsrR overexpression is in wild-type Salmonella. lsrR are deleted. LsrR is involved in regulation of SPI-1 genes in contrast to recent proposal.
rsta	RstA protein binds to feoA promoter. RstA protein promotes transcription of feoAB operon. RstA expression inhibits bioﬁlm formation.	rstA mRNA levels is in wild-type strains. rstA gene is even when transcribed from heterologous promoter. RstA constitute orthodox TCS regulatory pair. rstA are Intriguingly in bacterium separated by 3,585 bp in chromosome in contrast to adjacent localization displayed in E. coli. RstA is member of OmpR subfamily of two-compo-nent system characterized by display of winged-helix-turn-helix motif in DNA-binding domain.
luxs	luxS = regulates certain key virulence genes. luxS gene have non-QS functions. LuxS play role in S. Typhimurium virulence. luxS gene is required for induction of InvF regulator. LuxS regulate predominant transcriptional activator of prgH expression. luxS gene product mediates production of AI-2. LuxS affects ﬂagellar phase variation independently of quorum sensing in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi-murium. luxS gene contributes to Salmonella virulence in mice. luxS gene encodes AI-2 synthase. luxS is essential for production of extracellular signaling molecule. gene Salmonella enterica luxS is involved in production of AI-2 molecules from S-adenyl-methionine.	gene Salmonella enterica luxS is In V. harveyi directly involved in production of AI-2 molecules from S-adenyl-methionine. luxS are involved in bioﬁlm process in Salmonella Typhimurium. luxS gene is necessary for expression of genes in pathogenicity island 1. luxS is responsible for regulation. Description Wild type SL1344 luxS SL1344 luxS is with pBRluxS SL1344. LuxS stability is in Salmonella serovar Typhimurium.
rstb	\N	RstB constitute orthodox TCS regulatory pair. RstB sensor is responsible. RstB sensor is responsible for acidic-pH-promoted RstA activity.
fruf	\N	FruF is bifunctional PTS system fructose-specific transporter subunit IIA/HPr protein.
rpod	\N	rpoD mutation is shown.
bola	morphogene bolA mediates reduction in cell size associated with stationary phase.	morphogene bolA is For example regulated by sS.
invb	InvB is required for type III-dependent secretion of SopA in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium.	InvB is type III secretion chaperone speciﬁc for SspA.
phea	\N	functional PheA is in S. Typhimurium. Gene pheA is conserved.
sifb	\N	sifB promoter is responsive.
tlpa	\N	temperature-sensing protein TlpA is repressed.
sifa	SifA binds to mammalian kinesin-binding protein SKIP.	Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium sifA mutant strain is in cytosol of different host cell lines. sifA transcriptional regulation is where dependent mostly on QseC especially within macrophages. KanR sifA is with endogenous promoter.
flge	\N	FlgE translation is Therefore decreased at stage of rod assembly. FlgE protein levels are negatively regulated.
ygba	\N	E. coli ygbA is also regulated.
pher	\N	pheR is located.
teta	tetA promoter induce ﬂhDC operon.	tetA promoter is in T-POP. tetA transcript is For visualization of resulting transcripts from tetA-ﬂiC operon fusions shown in light gray.
stm2243	\N	STM2243 is stationary phase RNA.
putp	putP gene encodes major proline permease. putP play role in betaine transport. PutP system is required for utilization of proline.	putP expression is in H3-4. PutP system is required for utilization of proline as carbon source. proline-prototrophic putP proP mutants are In of osmotic stress normally resistant to proline analogs.
zur	zinc-responsive regulator Zur controls zinc uptake system.	\N
usha	ushA encodes putative UDP-sugar hy-drolase/5.	cryptic ushA gene is in natural isolates of Salmo-nella enterica. ushA data are relative.
moab	\N	moaB is part. moaB is part of operon required for synthesis of molybdenum cofactor.
slya	Alternate SlyA control hylE expression in Escherichia coli K-12. SlyA binding to their intergenic regions. SlyA regulates synthesis of several Salmonella proteins during stationary phase during infection of macrophages. SlyA activate transcription. Salmo-nella slyA strains have stationary-phase survival defect. SlyA activate transcription binding to their intergenic regions simultaneously. SlyA activates expression of hdeAB in E. coli. SlyA is required for destruction following uptake of Salmonella serovar Typhi-murium for intracellular survival of salmonellae in murine Peyer 's patches. SlyA mediates adaptation of cell envelope properties of Salmonella in response to Mg. SlyA affects cellular levels of several heat shock proteins of proteins involved in acid resistance of E. coli. slyA encode hemolytic/cytolytic protein. SlyA contribute to induction of SPI-2 gene expression in response to environmental stimuli. SlyA acts as only transcriptional activator. SlyA contributes to transcriptional response to low osmolarity. SlyA act as positive. SlyA binds to regulatory DNA sequences of ssrAB. Isolated SlyA protein bind speciﬁc DNA target. SlyA bind to AT-rich inverted repeat sequence in target promoter. SlyA promotes expression of ﬁlament subunits.	SlyA is required for virulence of Salmonella serovar Typhimurium for capability of bacteria survive in professional phagocytes. MarR family member SlyA are present Tin members of family Enterobacteriaceae. SlyA belongs to family of transcriptional regulators. slyA is with mouse virulence of Salmonella serovar Choleraesuis. SlyA is member of MarR family of transcription factors. slyA is expressed in when intracellular environment of J774 macrophages. E. coli DH5a endA1 hsdR17 supE44 thi-1 recA1 pyrA relA1 D U169 deoR Plasmids pSX34 pBAD18 pSL2237 pSL2570 pSC101 derivative Cmr araC-PBAD plasmid slyA is in pSC101 pSX34. SlyA interacts with clyA promoter region.
stm2209	STM2209 encode small peptide of 40 amino acids.	STM2209 gene product is small hydrophobic peptide. STM2209 ORFs are conserved in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium strains respectively in vicinity of sugar transport gene setB. STM2209 interacts with inner-membrane protein STM2208.
stm2208	STM2208 encodes larger hydrophobic protein. STM2208 have low G+C content. STM2208 encode inner membrane proteins.	STM2208 are expressed at low levels in Dam S. enterica.
fhub	\N	FhuB is necessary for transport of ferrioxamine across cytoplasmic membrane of S. typhi-murium. FhuB is as in E. coli necessary for transport of ferrioxamine across cytoplasmic membrane of S. typhi-murium.
stm4330	\N	2.0 1.54E-08 STM4330 chaperone Hsp60 is with peptide-dependent ATPase activity.
acs	Acs can In Salmonella can reversibly acetylated also through Pat. acs encodes acetyl-CoA synthetase.	Acs is in their.
map	\N	standard Salmonella linkage map is in vicinity of ﬂgAMN genes. map is oriented in same direction as S. typhimurium genetic map. genetic map is with inferred transcription indicated above. restriction endonuclease map are shown in Fig. 1 A respectively.
hdeb	hdeB encodes acid stress chaperone.	\N
yeht	\N	YehT expression is in different media. yehT genes are encoded on 2,349 bp long fragment with 4 bp.
yehu	YehU activates YehT.	YehU is in S. Typhimurium.
yddg	YddG promotes export of aromatic amino acids.	yddG are required for efﬁcient efﬂux of methyl viologen.
ribb	ribB riboswitch controls transcription termination.	\N
prpc	\N	PrpC is probably involved.
zrap	\N	zraP are also significantly induced.
gark	\N	gene garK is 3.4-fold upregulated.
hpai	\N	HpaI site is in pSpvA-Z. HpaI sites are marked.
dnaj	DnaJ regulate heat shock gene expression.	\N
merr	MerR activates transcription of merTPCAD. MerR heavy metal receptor mediates positive activation. MerR represses its own transcription from PR.	responsive MerR homologue is in Escherichia coli. MerR is However in contrast to in behavior of MerR with truncated subunits sensitive in vivo to alterations at G311.
gtge	\N	GtgE is secreted.
mukb	\N	mukB mutation is in Escherichia coli.
pykf	\N	pykF is glycolytic.
pgtc	\N	pgtC constitute operon. pgtC are regulatory genes necessary for induction of pgtP gene.
pgtb	\N	pgtB constitute operon. PgtB are presumably involved in transmission of transmembrane signal to PgtA in to inducer binding.
pgta	PgtA can can freed from constraints imposed by PgtB.	\N
phopq	PhoPQ regulates SPI2 genes. PhoPQ plays role in intracellular survival of S. Typhimurium independent of its control of SPI2. PhoPQ have have implicated in expression of SPI-2 genes. PhoPQ play role in expression of SPI2 under magnesium. PhoPQ activates expression of PhoP-activated genes including genes on SPI2. PhoPQ two-component regulator controls expression. PhoPQ system can For example can induced. PhoPQ regulate LPS modifying system. PhoPQ two-component regulatory system is essential for survival of S. Typhimurium within professional phagocytes. PhoPQ contribute to cationic AMP resistance.	PhoPQ system is activated as Salmonella adapts to intracellular environment of needed. PhoPQ are further ubiquitous two-component systems with extended functions in pathogenic bacteria. PhoPQ regulon is responsible for intracellular survival of bacteria dependent on PhoPQ. cam phoPQ double mutant strain is with one controlled by HilA. PhoPQ two-component system is important for intracellular survival within macrophages. PhoPQ is in presence of sublethal concentrations of CAMPs.
mart	MarT binding to misL promoter region. MarT activates transcription of misL gene.	marT gene is located. MarT contains putative DNA-binding winged-helix-turn-helix domain between amino acids. MarT are members of family of ToxR-like regulatory proteins.
flgj	\N	flgJ gene belongs to theflgB operon.
ptsh-ptsi-crr	\N	ptsH-ptsI-crr region is in Escherichia coli K-12.
lon	Lon protease control turnover of HilD. ATP-dependent Lon protease regulates invasion of genes carried on Salmo-nella pathogenicity island 1. Lon regulate SPI1 gene expression. Brucella abortus Lon is required for wild-type virulence in BALB/c mice. Lon protease affects SPI1 expression. Lon is involved in production of capsular polysaccharides. Lon induce toxin activity. Lon protease activity represses hilA expression. Caulobacter Lon protease has role in cell-cycle control of DNA methylation.	Lon is capable of degrading SPI1 regulatory proteins after invasion. Lon is responsible for environmental regulation of SPI1 genes. 2,352-bp lon gene pUHE21-2 fd12 is with 1,836-bp hilA gene pMPM-A4 carrying. Lon is important for systemic Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium infection of mice. Lon protease is in S. enterica serovar Typhimurium. ATP-dependent Lon protease is regulator of SPI1 expression.
tcub	tcuB genes encode electron transfer protein.	\N
lexa	lexA gene product represses its own promoter. LexA antirepressor-mediated mechanism can In contrast can in principle reversed.	putative lexA regulatory motif is in its regulatory region. LexA DNA-binding domain is In system used as reporter determine. LexA levels are replenished.
fidl	\N	FidL is hypothetical inner membrane protein.
relb	RelB antitoxin dimers bind relO operator half-sites.	RelB level is reduced.
rela	relA encoding ppGpp synthase. relA is involved in responses of several sti loci.	RelA enzymes is in beta. RelA is specifically synthesized. Listeria monocytogenes relA are impaired in surface-attached growth.
lrha	LrhA regulates rpoS translation. LysR homolog LrhA promotes RpoS degradation.	LrhA is in Escherichia coli. LrhA is negative regulator of ﬂagellar in E. coli. LrhA is regulator of ﬂagellar.
rele	RelE controls relBE transcription.	Christensen RelE is activated.
pmrf	\N	pmrF double mutants is in selected backgrounds.
tvia	TviA regulates its own transcription. tviA encoding SPI-7 region. TviA represses invasion gene expression. TviA contributes to osmoregulation of invasion. TviA activates response regulator of RcsC/RcsD/RcsB phosphorelay system.	TviA regulated genes constitute subset of RcsB regulated genes. TviA is thought. TviA auxiliary protein are involved in transcriptional control of virulence factors in S. Typhi.
acrd	AcrD have broader substrate range than its E. coli counterpart. AcrD contribute to metal resistance in Salmonella.	AcrD is in heavy metal detoxification. AcrD is aminoglycoside efﬂux pump. AcrD are required for Salmonella multidrug resistance induced by BaeR.
icmf	icmF homologs play role in bacterial pathogenesis.	icmF homolog is in S. enterica serovar Typhimurium named for salmonella centisome 7 island. icmF homolog is located. IcmF are required for optimal effector translocation of Legionella pneumophila vacuole.
hu	HU plays role in hilA expression. HU regulates hilA expression. HU affects hilD mRNA levels. HU affect derepression of hilA.	HU is in eukaryotes. HU is composed. ab HU are detected.
rhs	\N	Rhs element is located.
ftnb	\N	ftnB is in Δfur. positive regulation ftnB is mediated.
scig	sciG core T6SS gene mutants have intracellular replication ratio of approximately 0.5.	sciG mutants is in systemic dissemination.
micf	\N	micF expression is in wild-type strain. micF gene is transcriptionally regulated by SoxS in E. coli.
yeaj	FIG 6 YeaJ plays role in invasion of epithelial cells. yeaJ regulates transition between motility. YeaJ regulate bacterial transition from motile state to bioﬁlm state in E. coli. YeaJ contributes to total c-di-GMP pool. yeaJ encodes bona ﬁde DGC. yeaJ is involved in Sal4-induced bioﬁlm formation in S. Typhimurium. YeaJ is required for production of cellulose.	YeaJ senses Sal4-induced changes is in membrane integrity. YeaJ is indeed active DGC responsible for c-di-GMP production at 37 °C in S. Typhimurium. YeaJ is necessary for bioﬁlm formation at 25 °C. YeaJ are components. YeaJ is regulator of cellulose production.
yffb	\N	yffB is Interestingly predicted.
flit	FliT binding to DNA. FliT acts as anti-FlhD C factor 2 2. FliT binds to FlhD2C2. FliT bind FlhDC complex. FliT inhibits binding of FlhD2C2 to class 2 promoter. FliT act as * Corresponding author.	FliT is regulator of FlhD4C2 activity. FliT is Therefore dualfunction protein involved in control of protein export. FliT are negative respectively. FliT is expressed in His tagged form. FliT interacts with FlhD.
groes	GroES chaperone machineries regulate 32.	\N
pyrb	\N	pyrB usp double mutants are able.
crl	Crl plays role in transcription activation of csgD. Crl activates transcription initiation of RpoS-regulated genes involved in multicellular behavior of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium. Crl is required for katE expression in 2922KrpoSLT2 compensate for reduction in S levels resulting from rpoSLT2 mutation. Crl affects subsequent steps in transcription initiation pathway. Crl controls growth of Salmonella on succinate. Crl is involved in development of rdar morphotype of Salmo-nella. Crl contributes to negative regulation by S. Negative regulation of 70-dependent gene expression by S. Crl contribute to S activity. Crl binds to S. Crl bind S. Crl promotes recruitment of E S to S-dependent promoters. crl null mutation can can complemented by increase in RpoS expression. Crl has role in S-depen-dent transcription initiation.	Crl is In Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium required for development of rdar morphotype of S-dependent genes. Crl protein interacts with S. Crl levels is in S. enterica serovar Typhimurium ATCC 14028. crl gene product is regulator of S activity.
flis	\N	FliS is also negative factor. FliS are believed.
impc	\N	ImpC is in Enterobacter cloacae.
rpon	rpoN encodes s54. rpoN gene is required for diverse metabolic functions.	RpoN regulon is in ε-Proteobacteria. rpoN gene is required.
gdha	\N	particular gdhA mutation is in recipient strain.
flih	OrgB-related ﬂagellar protein FliH inhibits its ATPase activity.	OrgB-related ﬂagellar protein FliH interacts with InvC homologue FliI.
flik	FliK regulates switching of substrate specificity. FliK is required for switch in substrate specificity. FliK proteins act as molecular rulers.	FliK is secreted by flagellar protein export apparatus during hook assembly with export signal located within FliKN. FliK contains unstable N-terminal region. fliK gene is part of RpoN regulon in bacteria. regulatory protein FliK interacts with secretion apparatus subunit FlhB.
exo	\N	exo Cloning vector is with arabinose-inducible promoter.
cysk	cysK have even have demonstrated in species.	cysK promoter contains CBS-K2. cysA gsr ptsI ptsH cysK cysZ dsd is in S. typhimurium. cysK plasmid effect is in E. coli due to lack of repression at major cysK promoter. cysK are closely linked to cysA to crr ptsI ptsH cluster located at 49 min on S. typhimurium chromosome at 52 min on E. coli chromosome. S. typhimurium cysK is with its promoter.
flid	FliD regulates FliT activity. FliD bind to FliT.	FliD is After hook-basal body completion excreted outside cell through hook-basal body complex with aid of ﬂagellum-speciﬁc type III export apparatus. ﬁlament cap protein FliD are also expressed from.
flig	\N	FliG subunit arrangement is in flagellar rotor probed by targeted cross-linking.
ihfb	ihfB mutants have levels of PocR protein equal to.	ihfB mutants are unable.
flia	FliA control transcription of hilA. FliA activates proteins required for chemotaxis of ﬁlament. FliA acts as sigma factor. ﬂagellar sigma factor FliA affects bacterial invasion of epithelial cells. Iino T. Gene fliA encodes alternative sigma factor specific for flagellar operons in Salmonella typhimurium. ﬂagellar sigma factor FliA 28 regulates expression of Salmonella genes associated with centisome 63 type III secretion system. FliA activate transcription of late assembly genes from class 3 promoter. FliA induce expression of late genes. fliA mutants insensitive toflgM regulation have Recently have isolated. FliA is involved in virulence. FliA play role in transcriptional regulation of genes. FliA is required for only its enhancement in FlgM-depletion condition.	Intracellular FliA level is in absence of FlhD4C2. FliA is ﬂagellum-speciﬁc alternate sigma factor essential for expression of motor genes.
flic	\N	FIG 5 FliC expression is in iacP mutant strain. fliC expression is where ON. FliC are greatly increased by disruption of clpPX.
sodci	SodCI contributes to virulence.	testing sodCI is in chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi-murium periplasmic superoxide dismutase SodCI is induced. sodCI open reading frame are In phage inserted between open reading frames for minor tail proteins. Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi-murium periplasmic superoxide dismutase SodCI is member of PhoPQ regulon.
mgla	\N	mglA constitute operon. mglA gene product is in 3-methylgaloctoside transport system of Escherichia coli.
mglc	\N	mglC gene product is claimed.
tdcd	tdcD gene encodes propionate kinase.	pBAD30 bla pTDC1 tdcD is in pBAD18s bla pENTR1A Entry vector.
fimf	fimF encode minor fimbrial components.	FimF are necessary for assembly of type 1 ﬁmbriae on Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi-murium.
aceb	\N	aceB are signiﬁcantly H2 upregulated.
ycgr	ycgR control ﬂagellar motor function. c-di-GMP binding protein YcgR controls ﬂagellar motor direction. YcgR protein inhibits motility. c-di-GMP-binding protein YcgR is involved in transition of motile cells to sessility at high intracellular c-di-GMP concentrations. c-di-GMP binding protein YcgR affect chemotaxis.	c-di-GMP-binding protein YcgR is involved. ycgR are In E. coli members of ﬂagellar regulon.
stm1787	\N	STM1787 promoter activation is in tumor microenvironment. STM1787 promoter is Second preferentially activated.
pdue	\N	pduE subunit are responsible.
sciq	\N	sciQ is in A. tumefaciens. sciQ are different.
stm3169	\N	STM3169 protein expression is in wild-type SH100. STM3169 is homologous to DctP in Rhodobacter capsulatus. STM3169 is homologous to DctP in Rhodobacter capsulatus with 31 % identity.
scir	\N	sciR is in cluster 2.
sciu	\N	sciU is in cluster 3.
scix	\N	sciX is in bicistronic operon. sciX are located.
hpt	\N	hpt mutants are impaired.
stm3635	STM3635 encode membrane-associated met-al-dependent hydrolase.	STM3635 is predicted.
finp	\N	FinP RNA is short-lived molecule. FinP RNA primer is with avian myeloblastosis virus reverse transcriptase.
yjbefgh	\N	yjbEFGH locus is in Escherichia coli K-12. yjbEFGH locus is operon encoding proteins involved in exopolysaccharide production.
rpsm	\N	AmpR Constitutive rpsM promoter is in pFPV25.
soxs	SoxS regulates expression of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium ompW gene. soxS plays role in MDR in 104-cip. SoxS positively regulates ompW. SoxS regulate ompW. SoxS bind to wild-type promoter. SoxS activates antibiotic resistance mechanisms in other species. SoxS is required for paraquat-induced augmentation of Mn-SOD expression.	SoxS belongs to AraC family of transcriptional regulators. SoxS regulation is in S. enterica serovar Typhimurium. soxS expression is sufﬁcient for induction of resistance to superoxide-generating drug paraquat for transcriptional activation of sodA. soxS primers pBR322_MarAR_EcoRI_Fw is with pBR322 _ MarAR_complsoxS_Rv. E. coli predicted SoxS proteins are highly related.
mgtc	S. typhimurium mgtC gene encoding Mg 2 þ transporter. mgtC gene is required for growth in low Mg2 in several phylogenetically unrelated pathogens. MgtC virulence factor activates ATPase. MgtC protein regulate ATP homeostasis. MgtC is involved in adaptation to low-Mg environ-2 þ ments. mgtC contributes to long-term infection in mice. MgtC residues located play role in interaction with MgtR.	MgtC 's role is in ability of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium survive within macrophages. MgtC protein is Despite high level of mgtCB transcriptional induction in magnesium-depleted medium hardly detected in wildtype Salmonella strain. mgtC coding regions are complementary to mgtC mRNA separated by 219 nucleotides.
scil	sciL genes have largest number.	sciL genes is in cluster 1. sciL is located.
imp	\N	imp is immediately followed by surA with only 43-bp intervening sequence.
euta	\N	eutA gene is required.
clpx	clpX mutation affects rate of transcription of ﬂhD master operon. protease ClpX represses ﬂiC expression in macrophages.	isogenic clpX strain is in SDS-polyacrylamide gel. ClpX heat-shock protein is novel molecular chaperone. ClpX are essential for efﬁcient acquisition of genes.
fpr	\N	E. coli fpr is NADPH.
nada-pnuc	\N	nadA-pnuC operon is regulated.
mglb	\N	mglB constitute operon. mglB is in order. mglB gene product is only 33,000 daltons.
pdxb	pdxB gene is required for de biosynthesis of vitamin B6-derived coenzyme pyridoxal 59-phos-phate.	pdxB gene is required.
psif	\N	psiF are also absent.
flga	FlgA protein is required for P-ring assembly.	flgA gene is in Salmonella typhimurium. flgA promoter is when deleted. flgA belongs to class II andfliD.
mltc	MltC affect CsgD expression. MltC have different domain structures. MltC regulate expression of extracellular matrix components.	MltC contains additional domain of unknown function. MltC is expressed at signiﬁcantly lower levels than MltE despite fact. mltE mltC STM4264 triple mutant is with upregulated rdar morphotype.
wecc	wecC gene is required for synthesis of enterobacterial common antigen.	wecC gene is required.
flgl	FlgL bind to FlgN.	\N
glpb	glpB encode subunits of anaerobic dimethyl sulfoxide reductase.	\N
stm0834	STM0834 encode putative membrane proteins consistent with location of LPS phosphoethanolamine phosphotransferase.	\N
nusa	NusA binds to RNA polymerase core enzyme.	its cofactors NusA is in E. coli. NusA is transcription termination factor.
lysr	LysR regulate their own genes. LysR homolog LrhA promotes RpoS degradation.	LysR is in Rhizobium. LysR is positive regulator.
glpk	\N	glpK mutants are unable.
ydgr	\N	serovar Typhimurium ydgR gene is tppB.
yehut	yehUT regulates yjiY.	yehUT regulated gene is in serovars. yehUT operon is with surrounding genes.
prox	\N	proX contains three genes pro arranged in one operon.
flag	C-terminal FLAG tag binding to ompC. 3 FLAG alleles have have transduced respectively.	tet template FLAG tag expression vector Integrational plasmid is in pMW118 stm3169. tet template FLAG tag expression vector Integrational plasmid is with promoterless lacZ gene Expression vector.
rfaj	\N	rfaJ is transcribed.
prow	\N	proW contains three genes pro arranged in one operon.
hns	hns mutants have increased level of RpoS. hns mutations affect plasmid supercoiling.	hns gene is in region coding for carboxy terminus of H-NS nucleoid protein. speciﬁc hns transcript is approximately 378 bp in size. hns gene is with lambda Red system. hns are tightly linked.
fis	Elliott T. Fis regulates transcriptional induction of RpoS in Salmonella enterica. Characterized Fis sites have total scores for random sequences average 0. Fis regulate expression. Fis is required for proper regulation of ssaG expression in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi-murium. Fis activates RpoS-dependent station-ary-phase expression of proP in Escherichia coli. Fis affects expression of H2 ﬂagellar gene. Fis is involved in Salmonella typhimurium SPI-1 invasion gene expression. Fis play role in initiation of DNA replication. Fis protein binding to ﬁs promoter. Fis plays role in Tn5. Fis acts as repressor of PrpoS promoter. Fis controls transcription of 303 genes. FIS contributes to transcriptional activation of promoters. Fis affect derepression of hilA by HilD. Fis binds to six sites within E. coli ﬁs promoter region. Fis bind oriC. Fuchs JA Escherichia coli Fis bind to nrd promoter region. Fis represses transcription from PrpoS. Fis contribute to invasion ability of S. enterica.	E. coli fis expression is much more dependent on global cellular physiology than on direct activity of transcription factors. Fis sites are protected from DNase I cleavage by E. coli Fis at K. pneumoniae ﬁs P. Fis is with same tendency including genes for oxidative phosphorylation. Fis Affect hilA Expression is in Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhimurium Lisa M. Schechter.
prov	\N	proV expression is in Salmonella strain SV5015AV. ProV is well characterised H-NS-dependent osmoinducible transport protein in Salmonella.
hemb	\N	hemB is separated from prpE by 66-bp gap.
pyre	\N	pyrE transcription is counterclockwise. pyrE mutants are Hence resistant.
pyrd	\N	pyrD hairpin is more compact.
zntr	ZntR regulates expression of zinc efﬂux pump ZntA.	\N
mlte	MltE affects expression of rdar morphotype through CsgD. Wild-type MltE have PG hydrolytic activity. MltE affect CsgD expression. MltE regulate expression of extracellular matrix components.	MltE is in combination with MltC. Overexpressed inactive MltE is however sensed. MltE contains only transglycosylase SLT domain. MltE lytic transglycosylase SLT domains are highly related. mltE mltC STM4264 triple mutant is with upregulated rdar morphotype.
srfabc	\N	srfABC expression pattern is in media. srfABC operon is repressed under SPI-2-inducing conditions in PhoP-dependent manner. srfABC constitute multigene horizontal acquisition based. Putative transcriptional unit trg srfABC i36 trg srfB is with repeats. srfABC operon is expressed in LB medium.
